Um, thanks.
Well, uh, maybe I'll see you around... maybe at school... since we... both... go there.
Great! It was nice to meet you. [walks away]
We both go to school. Very suave. Very not pathetic.
The influx of the undead, the... supernatural occurrences, it's been building for years. There's a reason why you're here and a reason why it's now!
Because now is the time my mom moved here.
Something's coming, something, something, something is - is gonna happen here. Soon!
Gee, can you vague that up for me?
Well... when I'm with a boy I like, it's hard for me to say anything cool, or, or witty. Or at all. I-I can usually make a few vowel sounds, and then I have to go away.
It's not that bad.
No, i-it is. I think boys are more interested in a girl who can talk.
You really haven't been dating lately.
[about the mausoleum] Well, this is nice. I-it's a little bare, but a dash of paint, a few throw pillows... call it home!
Who the hell are you?
Not yet!
Okay, first of all, what's with the outfit? Live in the now, okay? You look like DeBarge!
Now, we can do this the hard way, or... well, actually there's just the hard way.
That's fine with me!
For as long as there have been vampires, there has been the Slayer. One girl in all the world, a Chosen One...
He loves doing this part.
Welcome to the New World.
This is just too much. I mean, yesterday my life's like, 'Uh-oh, pop quiz.' Today it's 'Rain of Toads'.
I know. And everyone else thinks it's just a normal day.
Nobody knows. It's like we've got this big secret.
We do. That's what a secret is, when you know something other guys don't.
[onstage at The Bronze] Ladies and gentlemen... there is no cause for alarm. Actually, there is cause for alarm. It just won’t do any good.
We've gotta get in there before Jesse does something stupider than usual.
Listen to me... Jesse is dead. You have to remember that when you see him, you're not looking at your friend. You're looking at the thing that killed him.
Well, I gotta look on the bright side. Maybe I can still get kicked out of school.
Oh, yeah, that's a plan. Cause lots of schools aren't on Hellmouths.
Maybe you could blow something up. They're really strict about that.
I was thinking of a more subtle approach, ya know, like excessive not studying.
[to himself] The Earth is doomed.
Maybe because they met her? Did I say that?
You're the Slayer, and we're, like, the Slayerettes!
I laugh in the face of danger! Then I... hide until it goes away.
Look what I found. It's my yearbook from junior year. [finds her picture] Oh, look! There I am.
Mom, I've accepted that you've had sex. I am not ready to know that you had Farrah hair.
This is Gidget hair. Don't they teach you anything in history?
This is madness. What could you have been thinking? You are the Slayer. Lives depend upon you. I make allowances for your youth, but I expect a certain amount of responsibility, instead of which you enslave yourself to this-this... cult.
You don’t like the color?
God, every day here is the same.
Bright, sunny, beautiful. However can we escape this torment?
It's funny how the Earth never opens up and swallows you when you want it to.
Of course.
Entirely.
Right. Wasn't here. Didn't see it. Couldn't have stopped you.
I'm just saying when tragedy strikes, we have to look on the bright side. You know? Like how even used Mercedes still have leather seats.
[about Owen's book selection] Oh, Emily Dickinson.
We're both fans.
Yes, she's quite a good poet. I mean for a...
[defensively] A girl?
For an American.
Owen!
All right, I-I'll just jump in my time machine, go back to the twelfth century and ask the vampires to postpone their ancient prophecy for a few days while you take in dinner and a show.
Okay, at this point you're abusing sarcasm.
Well, you know what they say; ninety percent of the vampire slaying game is, is waiting.
You couldn't have told me that ninety percent ago?
If the apocalypse comes, beep me.
We just saw the zebras mating. Thank you, very exciting!
It was like the Heimlich... with stripes!
What is it with those guys?
They're obnoxious. Professionally.
Well, every school has 'em. See, you start a new school, you get your desks, some blackboards and some mean kids.
You remember, you fail math, you flunk out of school, you end up being the guy at the pizza place that sweeps the floor and says, "Hey, kids, where's the cool parties this weekend?" We've been through this.
Uh-huh.
And, there's been a noticeable change in both clothing and demeanor?
Yes.
And, well, otherwise all his spare time is spent lounging about with imbeciles.
It's bad, isn't it?
It's devastating. He's turned into a sixteen-year-old boy. Of course you'll have to kill him.
Testosterone is a great equalizer, it turns all men into morons.
What?!?
The elders conjured the most perfect punishment for me. They restored my soul.
What, they were all out of boils and blinding torment?
When you become a vampire, the demon takes your body, but it doesn't get your soul; that's gone. No conscience, no remorse, it's an easy way to live. You have no idea what it's like to have done the things I've done...and care. I haven't fed on a human being since that day.
Why not? I killed mine. I killed their friends... and their friends' children... For hundreds of years I offered ugly death to everyone I met, and I did it with a song in my heart.
More digitized information went across phone lines than conversation.
That is a fact that I regard with genuine horror.
I'm just going to stay and clean up a little. I'll be back in the Middle Ages.
Did you ever leave?
You kids really dig the library, don't you?
We're literary.
To read makes our speaking English good.
Are we over-reacting? He's in a computer, what can he do?
Randomize traffic signals.
Access launch codes for our nuclear missiles.
Destroy the world's economy.
I think I pretty much capped it with that nuclear missile thing.
Right, yours was best.
He thought it would behoove me to have more contact with the students. I did try to explain that my vocational choice of librarian was a deliberate attempt to minimize said contact, but he would have none of it.
Shouldn't it be aimed at my neck?
No, no this way your scalp gets sliced off and your brains just come pouring out.
What exactly is the trick?
Trick?
What about the whole "it's a demon" theory?
I'm looking into that, but my investigation is somewhat... hampered by our life in the theater.
Yeah, we can't do the talent show, it's unthinkable. I'm not able to think it!
This is so unfair.
You want to go to school?
Sure! Why not?
Okay. Good day to buy that lottery ticket.
Well, the Hellmouth, the center of mystical convergence, supernatural monsters: been there.
Little blasé there, aren't you?
I'm not worried. If there's something bad out there we'll find, you'll slay, we'll party!
You da man, Buff!
You were a lousy clown! Your balloon animals were pathetic! Anyone can make a giraffe!
Our dreams are coming true?
Dreams? That would be a musical comedy version of this. Nightmares, our--our nightmares are coming true.
Well, everyone looked down on him.
That is such a twinkie defense. Shylock should get over himself. People who think their problems are so huge craze me. Like this time I sort of ran over this girl on her bike. It was the most traumatizing event of my life, and she's trying to make it about her leg! Like my pain meant nothing.
I've never actually heard of anyone attacked by a lone baseball bat before.
Maybe it's a vampire bat. [everyone stares at him] I'm alone on that one, huh?
Not for a long while.
Is that why you're here? To see her?
I can't. It's, uh... It's too hard for me to be around her.
A vampire in love with a Slayer. It's rather poetic... in a maudlin sort of way.
'Have a nice summer', 'Have a nice summer'. This girl had no friends at all.
Once again I teeter at the precipice of the generational gap.
'Have a nice summer' is what you write when you have nothing to say.
It's the kiss of death.
That about sums it up.
Bummer for her. It's awful to feel that lonely.
Hmm. So you've read something about the feeling?
Hey! You think I'm never lonely because I'm so cute and popular? I can be surrounded by people and be completely alone. It's not like any of them really know me. I don't even know if they like me half the time. People just want to be in a popular zone. Sometimes when I talk, everyone's so busy agreeing with me, they don't hear a word I say.
Well, if you feel so alone, then why do you work so hard at being popular?
Well, it beats being alone all by yourself.
[about the prophecy] Well, there's gotta be some way around it.
Then you're reading it wrong.
(about the prophecy in which she will die) So that's it, huh? I remember the drill. One slayer dies, the next one's called. I wonder who she is. Will you train her? Or will they send someone else?
I was hoping I wouldn't have to, that there was some way around it. I...
I've got a way around it. I quit.
It's not that simple.
I'm making it that simple. I quit. I resign, I-I'm fired, you can find someone else to stop The Master from taking over.
I'm not sure that anyone else can. All the... the signs indicate...
I don't suppose I am
I know this is hard.
What do you know about this? You're never gonna die
You think I want anything to happen to you? You think I could stand it? We just gotta figure out a way...
I already did. I quit, remember. Pay attention!
I may be dead, but I'm still pretty. Which is more than I can say for you.
What can I say? I flunked the written.
You're that amped about Hell? Go there!
Yes.
I do enjoy these pep talks. Have you ever considered, given your abhorrence of children, school's principal was not, perhaps, your true vocation?
Oh, look, it's the Three Musketeers.
Kinda lacked punch.
The Three Musketeers were cool.
I see your point.
I woulda gone with Stooges.
Well, I just meant that you guys always hang out together. So, did you guys fight any demons this summer?
Uh, yes! Our own personal demons.
Uh, such as, as, as lust and, uh, thrift!
I would have to go with Stooges also.
She's possessed!
Possessed?
Are we overlooking the idea that she may be very attracted to me? [gets looks from the others and concedes] She's possessed.
Possessed by what?
Aaaaa possessing thing!
[sarcastically] Well, that narrows it down.
Well, you're the expert. Hey, maybe when the Master killed her some... mystical bad guy transference thing happened.
That's what it was! I mean, why else would she be acting like such a b-i-t-c-h?
A bitca?
As defending champion, you nervous?
Which is?
Get over it.
Excuse me?
Whatever is causing the Joan Collins 'tude, deal with it. Embrace the pain, spank your inner moppet, whatever, but get over it. 'Cause pretty soon you're not even gonna have the loser friends you've got now.
What an ordeal. And you know what the worst part is?
What?
Yeah that's the worst part of being hung upside down by a vampire who wants to slit your throat. The stains.
Are you jealous?
Is it 'cause I danced with him?
Danced with is a pretty loose term. Mated with might be a little closer.
Don't you think you're being a little unfair? It was one little dance, which I only did to make you crazy, by the way. Behold my success.
I am not jealous.
You're not jealous? What, vampires don't get jealous?
See? Whenever we fight you always bring up the vampire thing.
(digging in the grave yard as the girls watch) Y'know, this might go a lot faster if you femmes actually picked up a shovel, too.
(stopping, almost breathless) Hear, hear.
Sorry, but I'm an old fashioned gal. I was raised to believe that men dig up the corpses and the women have the babies.
So, both coffins are empty. That makes three girls signed up for the army of zombies.
Is it an army if you just have three?
Zombie drill team then.
I don't get it. Why would anybody wanna make a girl?
(bitterly) You mean when there's so many pre-made ones just laying around? The things we do for love.
Love has nothing to do with this.
Maybe not, but I'll tell you this: people don't fall in love with what's right in front of them. People want the dream. What they can't have. The more unattainable, the more attractive.
Well, I guess that makes it official. Everybody's paired off. Vampires get dates. Hell, even the school librarian sees more action than me. You ever think that the world is a giant game of musical chairs, and the music's stopped and we're the only ones who don't have a chair?
All the time.
Do you mind? We're talking here.
So where were we?
Wondering why we never get dates.
Yeah, so why do you think that is?
You've got Slayer problems. That's a bad piece of luck. Do you know what I find works real good with Slayers? Killing them.
We were at the Bronze before. Thought you said you might show.
You said you weren't sure if you were going.
I was being cool. C'mon, you've been dating for, what, like, two hundred years? You don't know what a girl means when she says maybe she'll show?
Wow. Two centuries of dating. If you only had two a year, that's still like 400 dates with 400 different... [Awkward beat.] Why do they call it a mace?
I taught you to always guard your perimeter. [tuts.] You should have someone out there.
I did. I'm surrounded by idiots. What's new with you?
Everything.
Yeah. Come up against this slayer yet?
She's cute. Not too bright, though. Gave her the puppy dog "I'm all tortured" act. Keeps her off my back when I feed.
People still fall for that Anne Rice routine? What a world!
Things change.
Not us! Not demons! Man, I can't believe this. You Uncle Tom! Come on people! This isn't a spectator sport!
[destroying Collin] From now on, we're gonna have a little less ritual, and a little more fun around here!
You have responsibilities that other girls do not.
Oh! I know this one! Slaying entails certain sacrifices, blah blah biddy blah, I'm so stuffy, give me a scone.
It's as if you know me.
Well, it involves a feather boa and the theme to A Summer Place. I can't discuss it here.
I'm not picky. You're just impressed by any pretty girl that can walk and talk.
She doesn't have to talk.
You are always thinking of others before yourself. You remind me of someone from very long ago. The Inca Princess.
Cool! A princess.
They told her that she was the only one. That only she could defend her people from the nether world. Out of all the girls in her generation... she was the only one... chosen. Do you know the story?
It's fairly familiar.
She was sixteen, like us. She was offered as a sacrifice and went to her death. Who knows what she had to give up to fulfill her duty to others?
Okay, I have something to tell you. And it's kind of a secret, and it's, um, a little bit scary. I like you. A lot. And I want you to go to with me the dance.
[laughs] Why was that so scary?
Well, because you never know if a girl's gonna say 'yes', or if... she's gonna laugh in your face and pull out your still beating heart and crush it into the ground with her heel.
Hmm. Then you are very courageous.
I just, present company excluded, I have the worst taste in women of anyone in the world, ever.
Yeah, but I think that whole sucking the life out of people thing would have been a strain on the relationship.
She was gypped. She was just a girl, and she had her life taken away from her. I remember how I felt when I heard the prophecy that I was gonna die. I wasn't exactly obsessed with doing the right thing.
Yeah, but you did. You gave up your life.
I had you to bring me back.
I knew this was gonna happen.
What? What do you think is happening?
You're 16 years old, I'm 241.
I've done the math.
You don't know what you're doing. You don't know what you want.
Oh, no, I, I think I do. I want out of this conversation.
Listen, if we date, you and I both know one thing's going to lead to another.
One thing already has led to another. You think it's a little late to be reading me a warning label?
I'm just trying to protect you. This could get out of control.
Isn't that the way it's supposed to be?
[grabs her roughly] This isn't some fairy tale. When I kiss you, you don't wake up from a deep sleep and live happily ever after.
No. When you kiss me I want to die.
I wasn't lying. I was just... protecting him from information that he wouldn't be able to... digest properly.
Like a corn dog.
Like you don't have a sick mother, but you'd rather go to a frat party where there's gonna be drinking and older guys and probably an orgy.
Whoa! Whoa-ho-ho, rewind. Since when do they have orgies, and why aren't I on the mailing list?
There's no orgies!
Don't you hate that?
And when he does, he treats me like I'm a child.
That bastard!
You know, at least Tom can carry on a conversation.
Yeah! (pause) Tom? Who's Tom?
The frat guy.
She lied to me?
Well...
Did... she have a date?
I told one lie, I had one drink.
Yes, and you were very nearly devoured by a giant demon snake. The words "let that be a lesson" are a tad redundant at this juncture.
Yeah. It's too bad. That stuff is private.
Most importantly, it would be wrong.
Oh, he's a vampire! Of course! But the cuddly kind, like a Care Bear with fangs.
It's true.
It's just ... You're never gonna get noticed if you keep hiding! You're missing the whole point of Halloween.
Free candy?
It's "come as you aren't" night! The perfect chance for a girl to get sexy and wild, with no repercussions.
Oh, I don't get wild. Wild on me equals spaz.
Do you love my insides? The parts you can't see?
Eyeballs to entrails, my sweet.
Ta da. Just little old 20th-century me.
Sure you're okay?
I'll live.
I just wanted to be a real girl for once. The kind of fancy girl you liked when you were my age.
Oh, ho.
What?
I hated the girls back then. Especially the noblewomen.
You did.
They were just incredibly dull. Simpering morons, the lot of them. I always wished I could meet someone ... exciting. Interesting.
Really? Interesting how?
You know how.
Still, I had a really hard day. You should probably tell me.
You're right. I should.
Definitely.
I just don't see why everyone's always picking on Marie-Antoinette. I can so relate to her. She worked really hard to look that good, and people just don't appreciate that kind of effort. And I know the peasants were all depressed ...
I think you mean oppressed.
Whatever. They were cranky. So they're like, "Let's lose some heads." Uh! That's fair. And Marie-Antoinette cared about them. She was gonna let them have cake!
Are you going to tell me that I'm jealous?
Well, you do sometimes get that way.
You know, I never used to. Things used to be pretty simple. A hundred years, just hanging out, feeling guilty ... I really honed my brooding skills. Then she comes along. Yeah, I get jealous. But I know people. And my gut tells me this is a wrong guy.
He left no paper trail. That's incriminating enough.
I'm going to have to go with Deadboy on this.
Could ya not call me that?
Do you love me?
What?
Do you?
I love you. I don't know if I trust you.
Maybe you shouldn't do either.
Maybe I'm the one who should decide!
And you made her a vampire.
Well. I asked for the truth.
I believe that's called growing up.
Then I'd like to stop, okay?
I know the feeling.
Does it ever get easy?
You mean life?
Yeah. Does it get easy?
What do you want me to say?
Lie to me.
Yes, it's terribly simple. The good guys are always stalwart and true, the bad guys are easily distinguished by their pointy horns or black hats, and, uh, we always defeat them and save the day. No one ever dies, and everybody lives happily ever after.
Liar.
He probably sat in math class thinking, "There should be more math. This could be mathier."
Um, a medical transport is delivering the monthly supply of blood to the hospital.
Mm. Vampire Meals-On-Wheels.
He was alone.
Give it time.
I feel pretty good about it. Does that make me a sociopath? Nah.
I'm not gonna lie to you. It was scary. I'm so used to you being a grownup, and then I find out that you're a person.
Most grownups are.
"Are you a people person, or do you prefer keeping your own company?" Well, what if I'm a people person who keeps his own company by default?
So, mark "none of the above".
Well, there are no boxes for "none of the above". That would introduce too many variables into their mushroom head, number-crunching little world.
What, and suck all the spontaneity out of being young and stupid? I'd rather live in the dark.
You're not gonna be young forever.
Yes, but I'll always be stupid. [silence. He looks around] Let's not all rush to disagree.
I wish we could be regular kids.
Yeah. I'll never be a kid.
Okay, then a regular kid and her cradle-robbing, creature-of-the-night boyfriend.
No, I think it's just enough kill.
I can't even believe you. You dragged me out of bed for a ride? What am I, mass transportation?
That's what a lot of the guys say, but it's just locker room talk. I wouldn't pay it any mind.
Oh, great, so now I'm your taxi and your punching bag.
I like to think of you more as my witless foil, but have it your way.
You know what? I'm going. I'd rather be worm food than look at your pathetic face!
Then go! I'm not stopping you!
I bet you wouldn't. I bet you'd let a girl go off to her doom all by herself!
Not just any girl. You're special.
I can't believe that I'm stuck spending what will probably be my last few moments on Earth here with you!
I hope these are my last few moments. Three more seconds with you and I'm gonna...
"I'm gonna" what? [steps closer] Coward!
Moron!
I hate you!
I hate you!
...We so need to get out of here!
[nods, frightened] Uh huh.
There's a Slayer handbook?
Wait. Handbook? What handbook? How come I don't have a handbook?
Is there a T-shirt, too? 'Cause that would be cool...
Well, what do you mean it would be of no use in my case? Wha- what's wrong with my case?
And those two, they also know you are the Slayer?
Yep.
Did anyone explain to you what "secret identity" means?
Nope. Must be in the handbook. Right after the chapter on personality removal.
Two Slayers!
No waiting!
No, thank you. How's your arm?
Suddenly painless.
You can still play guitar okay?
Not well, but not worse.
You know, I never really thanked you.
Please don't. I don't do thanks. I get all red and I have to bail. It's not pretty.
Well then forget-that thing. Especially the part where I kind of owe you my life.
Look. Monkey. And he has a little hat. And little pants.
Yeah. I see.
The monkey is the only cookie animal that gets to wear clothes, you know that... You have the sweetest smile I've ever seen... So I'm wondering, do the other cookie animals feel sort of ripped? Like, is the hippo going, "hey man, where are my pants? I have my hippo dignity." And you know the monkey's just, [in French accent] "I mock you with my monkey pants," then there's a big coup at the zoo...
The monkey's French?
All monkeys are French. You didn't know that?
Oh, yeah!
So, is it better than playing naughty stewardess?
Vampires are creeps.
Yes, that's why one slays them.
I mean, people are perfectly happy getting along, and then vampires come, and they run around and they kill people, and they take over your whole house, they start making these stupid little mini-pizzas, and everyone's like, "I like your mini pizzas", but I'm telling you, I am—
So Mom's like, "Do you think Ted will like this?" and "This is Ted's favorite show", and "Ted's teaching me computers", and "Ted said the funniest thing", and I'm like, "That's really great, Mom", and then she said I was being sarcastic, which I was, but I'm sorry if I don't wanna talk about Ted all the time.
So, you gonna talk about something else at some point?
I'm sorry. I just have so much to deal with, I don't need some new guy in my life.
No, but maybe your mom does.
Well, sure, if you're gonna use wisdom.
Loneliness is about the scariest thing there is.
Okay, so my mom needs a guy in her life. Does it have to be Ted?
Do you have somebody else in mind? There's a guy out there that would satisfy you?
My dad? Yeah, okay, that's not gonna happen. Fine, fine, I'll give Ted a chance. I'll play mini-golf, and I'll smile and curtsy and be the dutiful daughter. Do I have to like him?
Kiss me.
Finally, something I wanna do!
[about Ted] So far, all I see is someone who supposedly has a good job, and is nice and polite, and my mother really likes him.
What kind of a monster is he?
Oh, Will, you're supposed to use your powers for good!
I just wanna learn stuff.
Like how to build your own serial killer?
Uh, it's so hard to rent one nowadays.
It's an outfit. An outfit that you may never buy.
But I looked good in it.
You looked like a streetwalker.
But a thin streetwalker. (pauses) That's probably not gonna be the winning argument, is it?
You're just too young to wear that.
Yeah, and I'm gonna be too young to wear it until I'm too old to wear it.
That's the idea.
Did Mr. Whitmore notice I was tardy?
I think the word you're searching for is absent.
As far as punishments go, this is fairly abstract.
No, it's your baby!
Okay, I get it even less.
You know it's the whole sex leads to responsibility thing, which I personally don't get. You gotta take care of the egg, it's a baby. You gotta keep it safe and teach it Christian values.
My egg is Jewish.
Then teach it that dreidel song.
Yes! Yes, yes, that's not a bad idea. Strength in numbers.
Oh, right. I see a lotta hunting getting done in that scenario.
Which is another secret to conscientious egg care. A pot of scalding water and about eight minutes.
You boiled your young?
I suppose there is a sort of Machiavellian ingenuity to your transgression.
I resent that! Or possibly thank you.
A little of both might be appropriate.
So you don't think about the future?
No.
Never?
No.
You really don't care what happens a year from now? Five years from now?
I know the feeling.
Still, not every dream you have comes true. I mean, what else did you dream last night? Can you remember?
You see my point?
Oh, I don't know, though. He is a senior.
You think he's too old 'cause he's a senior? Please. My boyfriend had a bicentennial.
Well, what if the talking thing becomes the awkward-silence thing?
I'm gonna ask you to go out with me tomorrow night. And I'm kinda nervous about it, actually. It's interesting.
Oh! Well, if it helps at all, I'm gonna say "yes."
Yeah, it helps. It ... it creates a comfort zone. ... Do you wanna go out with me tomorrow night?
[slaps forehead] Oh! I can't!
Well, see, I like that you're unpredictable.
It's okay.
But you could come! If you wanted.
Well, I don't want to crash.
No, it's fine! You could be my ... my date.
All right. I'm in. [nods farewell when she indicates she's ready to leave]
[walks off, delighted with the encounter] I said "date"!
Are you okay?
Yeah. Hey, did everybody see that guy just turn to dust?
Ohhh, well ... sort of.
I know it's hard to accept at first.
Actually, it explains a lot.
Leave her alone!
That'll work. Now say pretty please.
Take me instead.
Apparently, you're not familiar with the concept. There is no instead, only firsts and seconds.
And if you go first, you don't get to watch the Slayer die.
Hurts, doesn't it?
Well, you know, it kinda itches a little.
Don't just stand there. Burn him.
Gee, maybe he's broken.
What the hell is going on?
This one ... cannot be burnt. He is clean.
Clean? You mean, he's ...
There's no humanity in him.
I couldn't have said it better myself.
Yeah, baby. I'm back.
No more of this 'I've got a soul' crap?
What can I say, hmm? I was going through a phase.
You've really got a yen to hurt this girl, haven't you?
She made me feel like a human being. That's not the kind of thing you just forgive.
I know it's weird ...
Look, I was gonna tell you.
Gee, what stopped you? Could it be shame?
All right, let's over-react, shall we?
But I'm ...
No. ... It just means you'd rather be with someone you hate, than be with me.
What? I took off.
But you didn't say anything. You just left.
Yeah. Like I really wanted to stick around after that.
What?
You got a lot to learn about men, kiddo. Although I guess you proved that last night.
What are you saying?
Let's not make an issue out of it, okay? In fact, let's not talk about it at all. It happened.
I, I don't understand. Was it m-me? Was I not good?
You were great. Really. I thought you were a pro.
Now, I know you haven't been in the game for a while, mate, but we still do kill people. Sort of our raison d'être, you know.
It's not over. I suppose you know that. He'll come after you, particularly. His profile ... he's likely to strike out at the things that made him the most human.
You must be so disappointed in me.
No. No no, I'm not.
This is all my fault.
We have a lot of fun, but I want smoochies!
Have you dropped any hints?
At last count? All of them, maybe more.
Meow!
Thanks, I haven't gotten a "Meow" before.
Quite. And it, uh, acts on-on pure instinct. No conscience, uh, uh, predatory and-and aggressive.
In other words, your typical male.
On behalf of my gender, hey!
Yes, let's not jump to any conclusions.
I didn't jump. I took a tiny step, and there conclusions were.
You mean... you'd still...
Well, I like you. You're nice, and you're funny, and you don't smoke. Yeah, okay, werewolf, but that's not all the time. I mean, three days out of the month, I'm not much fun to be around either.
You are quite the human.
So I'd still, if you'd still.
I'd still. I'd very still!
Okay. No biting, though.
Agreed.
Huh. A werewolf in love.
I wish dating was like slaying. You know, simple, direct, stake to the heart, no muss, no fuss.
Sorry to say, Xand, slaying is a tad more perilous than dating.
Why don't you rip her lungs out? It might make an impression.
Lacks... poetry.
It doesn't have to. What rhymes with lungs?
Don't be so jumpy... I've been in your bed before.
Yeah, but Will, we were both in footy pajamas.
Buff, for the love of God, don't open that raincoat.
Come on! It's a party! Aren't you gonna open your present?
It's not that I don't want to. Sometimes the remote impossible possibility that you might like me was all that sustained me. But not now. Not like this. This isn't real to you, you're only here because of a spell. I mean, if I thought you had one clue what it would mean to me, but you don't, so I can't.
[angered] So you're saying this is all a game?
A game? I... No!
You make me feel this way, and then you reject me? What am I, a toy?
I'll calm down when you explain yourself!
Get away from him. He's mine.
What? I, uh...
He doesn't have to say. I know what his heart wants.
Goddess Hecate, work thy will...
Uh-oh.
... Before thee let the unclean thing crawl!
I'm not a sheep.
Passion. It lies in all of us. Sleeping...waiting...and though unwanted...unbidden...it will stir...open its jaws, and howl. It speaks to us...guides us. Passion rules us all. And we obey. What other choice do we have? Passion is the source of our finest moments. the joy of love...the clarity of hatred...and the ecstasy of grief. It hurts sometimes more than we can bear. If we could live without passion, maybe we'd know some kind of peace. But we would be hollow. Empty rooms, shuttered and dank. Without passion, we'd truly be dead.
Well, sort of, except ...
Except what?
You're still the only thing he thinks about.
Are you insane? We're supposed to kill the bitch, not leave gag gifts in her friends' beds.
Don't worry, Roller Boy. I've got everything under control. [ Molotov Cocktail lights the room on fire]
Hey. Here we are. It's all of we. Are we taking me home?
Yeah? Lie at home. My bed is better than any bed that's... not my bed.
Shhh! Hospital zone. No singing.
Homework.
It's my way of saying get well soon.
You know, chocolate says that even better.
I did all your assignments. All you have to do is sign your name.
Chocolate means nothing to me.
Tact is just not saying true stuff. I'll pass.
No, she's being literal. She used to have all these medical volumes, and diagnosed me with stuff. I didn't have the heart to tell her she was playing it wrong.
Wrong? Why? How did you play doctor?
I... never have.
You don't know how to kill this thing.
Solid call.
Impulsive? Do you remember my ex-boyfriend, the vampire? I slept with him, he lost his soul, now my boyfriend's gone forever, and the demon that wears his face is killing my friends. The next impulsive decision I make will involve my choice of dentures.
Oh, no, no. No. Not cool. This was no wimpy chain rattler. This was "I'm dead as hell, and I'm not gonna take it anymore."
I defined something? Accurately? Guess I'm done with the book learning.
I appreciate your thoughts on the matter, in fact I encourage you to always challenge me when you feel it's appropriate; you should never be cowed by authority. Except, of course, in this instance, when I am clearly right and you are clearly wrong.
[about the ghost of James] He's-he's trying to... resolve whatever issues are keeping him in limbo. What exactly those are, I'm not...
He wants forgiveness.
Yes. I imagine he does. But when James possesses people, they act out exactly what happened that night. So he's experiencing a form of purgatory instead. I mean, he's doomed to kill his Ms. Newman over and over and over again, and... Forgiveness is impossible.
Good. He doesn't deserve it.
No. James destroyed the one person he loved the most in a moment of blind passion. And that's not something you forgive. No matter why he did what he did. And no matter if he knows now that it was wrong and selfish and stupid, it is just something he's gonna have to live with.
He can't live with it, Buff. He's dead.
What was it? A demon?
[still washing his face] Love!
Last month he's the freak with jicama breath who waxes his back. He wins a few meets and suddenly inherits the cool gene?
Well, all I know is, my cheerleading squad wasted a lot of pep on losers. It's about time our school excelled at something.
Hmm. You're forgetting our high mortality rate.
We're number one!
That is wrong. A big fat spanking wrong. It's a slap in the face to every one of us who studied hard and worked long hours to earn our Ds.
And what about that nutty "all men are created equal" thing?
I think that was Lincoln.
Disgusting mole and stupid hat.
Actually, it was Jefferson.
Kept slaves. Remember?
Tell me what's in the steam!
And you did... sort of. Why?
Do you understand that I don't care? It's over. There's not gonna be any Swim Team.
So, something ripped him open and ate out his insides?
Like an Oreo cookie, well, except for, you know, without the... chocolatey cookie goodness.
So we're looking for a beastie.
That, uh, eats humans whole, except for the skin.
This doesn't make any sense.
Yeah, the skin's the best part.
I wouldn't break out the tartar sauce just yet. It's not like you were exposed more than once. Twice?
Three times a Fish Guy.
Whoa!
What am I gonna do?
You, you, you! What about me?! It's one thing to be dating the lame unpopular guy, but it's another to be dating the Creature from the Blue Lagoon.
Black Lagoon! The Creature from the Blue Lagoon was Brooke Shields. And thank you so much for your support!
I think we'd better find the rest of the swim team and lock them up before they get in touch with their inner halibut.
Yeah, where they teach lunch.
How about 'cause you're a tiny impotent Nazi with a bug up his butt the size of an emu?
That about sums it up.
Yes, you're a spawn of Satan, all the Hail Mary's in the world aren't going to help. The Lord will use you and smite you down. He's like that.
What can I do?
No! I want to be good. I want to be pure.
We all do, at first. World doesn't work that way.
Father, I beg you. Please... please, help me.
Very well. Ten 'Our Fathers' and an act of contrition. Does that sound good?
Yes. Yes, Father, thank you.
The pleasure was mine. Oh, and my child?
Yes?
God is watching you.
Boys.
He fills my head. I can't hear anything else.
Let me guess, someone pulls out the sword...
Someone worthy.
...The demon wakes up and wackiness ensues.
He will swallow the world.
This means I can't help you study for tomorrow's final.
Oh, I'll wing it. Of course, if we go to Hell by then, I won't have to take 'em... Or maybe I'll be taking them forever.
Bottom line is, even if you see them coming, you're not ready for the big moments. No one asks for their life to change, not really. But it does. So, what are we, helpless? Puppets? Nah. The big moments are gonna come, you can't help that. It's what you do afterwards that count. That's when you find out who you are.
I want to save the world.
You do remember that you're a vampire, right?
I want Dru back, I want it like it was before he came back. The way she acts around him.....
You're pathetic, I lost a friend tonight!
I wasn't in on that raiding party.
And I may lose more. The whole earth may be sucked into Hell and you want my help because your girlfriend's a big ho? Well, let me take this opportunity to not care!
I can't fight them both alone and neither can you.
[seething] I hate you.
And I'm all you've got.
Have we met?
You hit me over the head with an axe. (miming holding an axe over his head) "Get the hell away from my daughter!"
Open your eyes, Mom. What do you think has been going on for the past two years? The fights, the weird occurrences. How many times have you washed blood out of my clothing, and you still haven't figured it out?
Well, it stops now!
No, it doesn't stop. It never stops. Do-do you think I chose to be like this? Do you have any idea how lonely it is? How dangerous? I would love to be upstairs watching TV or gossiping about boys or, god, even studying! But I have to save the world. Again.
No weapons, no friends, no hope. Take all that away, and what's left?
Me.
That's right, big boy. Come and get it.
First of all, what was with the acrobatics? How did that happen?
Wasn't Andy Hoelich on the gymnastics team?
Uh, if I may suggest, "This time it's personal." I mean, there's a reason why it's a classic.
How did you find me here?
If I was blind, I would see you.
Stay with me.
Forever. That's the whole point. I'll never leave. Not even if you kill me.
You'd be cranky?
Entirely.
Well, we try not to get killed. That's part of our whole mission statement: "Don't get killed."
You don't hide. You're bait. Go act baity.
What's the plan?
The vampire attacks you.
And then what?
The vampire kills you. We watch, we rejoice.
You know, I just woke up and I looked in the mirror and thought, 'Hey, what's with all the sin.' I need to change. I'm dirty, I'm bad with the sex, and the envy and the loud music that us kids listen to nowadays... oh, I just suck at undercover.
Will you be slaying?
Only if they give me lip.
We're trying to find out how and why it rose from the grave. It's not as if I want to take it home and offer it a saucer of warm milk.
Well, I like it. I think you should call it Patches.
We should figure out what kinda deal this is. I mean, is it a-a gathering, a shindig or a hootenanny?
What's the difference?
Well, a gathering is brie, mellow song stylings; shindig, dip, less mellow song stylings, perhaps a large amount of malt beverage; and hootenanny, well, it's chock full of hoot, just a little bit of nanny.
Well, I hate brie.
Fine, okay, I can take my lumps. For awhile.
Will!
I'm sorry ... quitter.
Whiner.
Bailer.
Harpy.
Delinquent.
Tramp.
Bad seed.
Witch.
Freak.
I like when you do that.
The whole summer it was, like, the worst heatwave. So, it's about 118 degrees and I'm sleepin' without a stitch on, and all of a sudden I hear this screamin' from outside. So I go tearin' out stark nude and this church bus is broke down and there's three vamps feasting on half the Baptists in South Boston. So I waste the vamps and the preacher comes up and he's hugging me like there's no tomorrow when all of a sudden the cops pull up and they arrested us both.
Wow. They should film that story and show it every Christmas.
Always... I could eat a horse. Ain't it crazy how slaying just always makes you hungry and horny?
Well... sometimes I-I crave a non-fat yogurt after.
[about Kakistos] Now, this guy shows up two days ago, right? Right around the same time my bestest new little sister makes her scene.
Okay, but I was right about the leprechauns, right?
As far as I know, yes.
I'm sorry?
[about Scott] But you like him. When you think about him you get that good, down-low tickle, right?
Yeah, I guess... how low?
You tell me!
Okay, I was hoping to not get that cynical 'til I was at least forty.
It's not cynical. I mean, it's realistic. Every guy from... Manimal down to Mr. I-Love-The-English-Patient has beast in him. And I don't care how sensitive they act. They're all still just in it for the chase.
Pretty much full-time.
Couldn't sleep, huh?
Our task now is to determine what sort of killer we are dealing with. Quite clearly, we're looking for a depraved, sadistic animal.
Present. Hey, I may be a cold-blooded jelly doughnut, but my timing is impeccable.
They're training.
I stand by my phrase.
Hey.
Hi! How are you? You good? You look good. Anything new? Hey, did I mention you look good?
No, I'm not a friend, I'm a rabid dog who should be shot! But there're forces at work here! Dark, incomprehensible forces.
And I'm sure they're more important than all we've been through together, or... the number of times that I've saved your life.
What do you want?
'kay.
Okay, let's not say something we'll all regret later, okay?
Crazy freak!
Vapid whore!
Like that.
I don't even get why you care about Homecoming when you're doing stuff like this.
Because this is all I do. This is what my life is. You couldn't understand. I just thought ... Homecoming Queen. I could pick up a yearbook someday and say, I was there. I went to high school, I had friends, and, for one moment, I got to live in the world. And there'd be proof, proof that I was chosen for something other than this. Besides, [pumps the rifle] I look cute in a tiara.
It's late. How'd you get away?
Aw, it was easy. Started a fire in the prison laundry room. Rode out in the garbage truck.
Oh.
I'm joking. No garbage. Smell me.
Does anyone else wanna marry Ms. Barton?
Get in line.
Something's definitely changing them.
A spell?
They're teenagers. It's a sobering mirror to look into, huh?
I don't get this. The candy's supposed to make you feel all immature and stuff, but I've had a ton and I don't feel any diff- never mind.
Yeah, we can go home. I've got the SAT's tomorrow.
Oh, blow them off. I'll write you a note.
Why are you guys so hyper?
Let's see. Killing zombies, torching sewer monsters, and, no, that's pretty much the same old Buffster.
What gives you the right to suck face with your demon lover again?
It was an accident.
What, you just tripped and fell on his lips?
I don't need an excuse! I think lots of dead people actually constitutes a reason!
Guy like that, with that kinda glove, could kill a whole mess of people.
She says he's clean.
[beat] Can I come?
I'm pathetic, illiterate. I'm Cletus the Slack-Jawed Yokel.
That's not it. It's just... You belong at-at a good old-fashioned college with keg parties and boys, not here with Hellmouths and vampires.
Not really seeing the distinction.
[tentatively pats his knee.] There, there.
The last time I looked in on you two, you were fighting to the death. Now you're back to making googly-eyes at each other like nothing happened. Makes me want to heave.
I don't know what you're talking about.
Oh, yeah, you're just friends.
That's right.
You're not friends. You'll never be friends. You'll be in love 'til it kills you both. You'll fight, and you'll shag, and you'll hate each other 'til it makes you quiver, but you'll never be friends. Love isn't brains, children, it's blood -- blood screaming inside you to work its will. I may be love's bitch, but at least I'm man enough to admit it.
Darn tootin'!
And they burst in, rescuing us, without even knocking? I mean, this is really all their fault.
Your logic does not resemble our Earth logic.
Mine is much more advanced.
I had no idea her wish would be so exciting! 'Brave new world.' I hope she likes it.
You're gonna change it back. I'm not afraid of you. Your only power lies in the wishing.
Wrong! This is the real world now. This is the world we made. Isn't it wonderful?
You trusting fool. How do you know the other world is any better than this?
Because it has to be.
That would be cool!
Done! [again nothing happens]
Done!
In fact, I wish all men except maybe the dumb and the really agreeable kind disappear off the face of the earth. That would be so cool! Or maybe...
So, you doing anything special?
Being Jewish. Remember, people? Not everyone worships Santa.
I was a man once.
I was young. I never had a chance to..
What?
Oh. Er, star.
No.
Then fight it.
It's too hard.
It told me to kill you. You were in the dream, you know. It told me to lose my soul in you and become a monster again.
I know what it told you, what does it matter?
What about me? I love you so much, and I tried to make you go away. I killed you and it didn't help. And I hate it! I hate that it's so hard... and that you can hurt me so much. I know everything that you did, because you did it to me. Oh, God! I wish that I wished you dead. I don't. [whispers] I can't.
Oh my God!
Kids?
Why was your mom there?
Mom, I'm not acting out, I'm a witch! I can make pencils float! And I can summon the four elements! Okay, two, but four soon. And I'm dating a musician!
I worship Beelzebub. I do his biddings! Do you see any goats around? No! 'Cause I sacrificed them!
All bow before Satan!
Hey. How are you?
I'm all right. I think I'm better than you right now. [indicates playground shrine] I heard about this. People are talking. People are even talking to me.
It's strange. People die in Sunnydale all the time. I've never seen anything like this.
They were children. Innocent. It makes a difference.
She's wrong.
Oh. Okay, that story makes a lot more sense now.
But we never...
We never win.
Not completely.
Never will. That's not why we fight. We do it because there's things worth fighting for.
Uh, wait, wait a minute. Uh... Uh, there is a fringe theory held by a few folklorists that some regional stories have actual, um, very literal antecedents.
And in some language that's English?
Fairy tales are real?
Hans and Gre... Hansel and Gretel?
Wait. Hansel and Gretel? Breadcrumbs, ovens, gingerbread house?
Of course! Well, it makes sense now.
Yeah, it's all falling into place. Of course that place is nowhere near this place.
Hansel and Gretel run home to tell everyone about the mean old witch.
Whoa, whoa, whoa. I'm still spinning on this whole fairy tales are real thing.
So what do we do?
I don't know about you, but I'm gonna go trade my cow in for some beans ... [silence] No one else is seeing the funny here.
Now, let's be clear. The brain damage happened before I hit you.
Wow! That was really funny looking! Could you do it again?
I'll kill you for that.
For that? What were you going to kill me for before?
Faulty metaphor. Kryptonite kills.
You're assuming I was talking about the green kryptonite. I was referring, of course, to the red kryptonite, which drains Superman of all his powers.
Wrong. The gold kryptonite's the power-sucker. The red kryptonite mutates Superman into some sort of weird --
Guys, reality!
It's sweet and thoughtful, and full of neat words to learn and say like "wilt" and "henceforth."
Then why'd you seem more excited last year when you got a severed arm in a box?
I'm sorry ... it's just, suddenly there's a chance that my calling's a wrong number ... it's just freaking me out a little.
I saw you before you became the slayer.
What?
I watched you, I saw you called, it was a bright afternoon out in front of your school. You walked down the steps and ... I loved you.
Why?
Because I could see your heart. You held it before you for everyone to see, and I was worried that it would get bruised or torn. And more than anything in my life, I wanted to keep it safe. To warm it with my own.
That's beautiful ... Or, taken literally, incredibly gross.
I was just thinking that too.
Or killed.
Or both. And you know, with the pain and then the death, maybe you shouldn't be leaping into the fray like that. Maybe you should be fray-adjacent.
Excuse me? Who, at a crucial moment, distracted the lead demon by allowing her to pummel him about the head?
Yeah. That was real manly, how you shrieked and all.
I think you'll find that was more of a bellow.
It must be really hard when all your friends have, like, superpowers. Slayer, werewolf, witches, vampires, and you're, like, this little nothing. You must feel like Jimmy Olsen.
I happen to be an integral part of that group. I happen to have a lot to offer.
Oh, please.
I do!
[to herself] There was no part of that that wasn't fun.
Do you remember the demon that almost got out the night I died?
Every nightmare I have that doesn't revolve around academic failure or public nudity is about that thing. In fact, once ... I dreamt that it attacked me while I was late for a test and naked.
She got me really wound up. A fight like that and, no kill. I'm about ready to pop!
Really? Pop?!
You up for it?
Oh, I'm up. I'm suddenly very up. It's just, um, I've never been up with people before.
Just relax. And take your pants off.
Those two ... concepts are ... antithetical.
Don't worry. I'll steer you around the curves.
[to bomb] Hello, nasty. [to himself] Less than two minutes. Dumb guy. Little bomb. How hard can it be?
And it just got harder.
You gonna do all that in forty-nine seconds?
I know what you're thinking. Can I get by him? Get up the stairs, out of the building, seconds ticking away. I don't love your chances.
Then you'll die, too.
Yeah, looks like. So I guess the question really is: Who has less fear?
I'm not afraid to die. I'm already dead.
Yeah, but this is different. Being blown up isn't walking-around-and-drinking-with-your-buddies dead. It's little-pieces-being-swept-up-by-a-janitor dead, and I don't think you're ready for that.
Are you?
[tired smile] I like the quiet.
They're typing those now.
Chemistry is easy. It's a lot like witchcraft, only less newt.
New Watcher?
New Watcher.
Not in the strictest sense.
Remember the three key words for any Slayer: preparation, preparation, preparation.
That's one word three times.
Now hold on, we can deal with this rationally. We have something you want, you have something we want...
A trade, intriguing... No, wait, boring. Pull off his kneecaps!
My. She's cheeky, isn't she?
Uh, first word: jail; second word: bait.
I missed the mark last night and I'm sorry about the guy, I really am! But it happens! Anyways, how many people do you think we've saved by now? Thousands? And didn't you stop the world from ending? Because in my book, that puts you and me in the plus column.
We help people! It doesn't mean we can do whatever we want.
Why not? The guy I offed was no Gandhi. I mean, we just saw he was mixed up in dirty dealings.
Maybe, but what if he was coming to us for help?
What if he was? You're still not seeing the big picture, B. Something made us different. We're warriors. We're built to kill.
To kill demons! But it does not mean that we get to pass judgment on people like we're better than everybody else!
We are better!
She was fighting those apocalypse demon things and I helped out... gave her a ride home.
And you guys talked?
Not extensively, no.
Then why would you... oh!
Oh!
I don't need to say "oh", I got it before. They slept together.
You sent your boy to kill me.
He's dust.
I guess that means you have a job opening.
I-I just... well, I-I wanna do...
[slightly embarrassed] So very shallow.
Competition is natural and healthy. Plus, you'll definitely ace her on the psych test. Just don't mark the box that says, "I sometimes like to kill people."
Thanks, sugar daddy.
Will, changing the look not an idle threat with you!
Uh, Will, this is verging on naughty touching here, don't wanna fall back on bad habits - Hands! Hands in new places!
[nervous, trying to be polite] You know what? I-I like the look. It's, um, it's extreme, but it, it, it looks good, you know, it's a... leather thing, and, uh... I said "extreme" already, right?
What do I want with you? Uh...
Oh. Oh! Oops!
Would that mean we have to snuggle?
This just can't get more disturbing.
Ack! Ew! No more! You're really starting to freak me out!
And you say this demon wanted cash? That's very unusual.
Got the address. I beat it out of Willy the snitch personally.
You beat up Willy?
Sure. Well, actually, let's just say I applied some pressure. Or more accurately, that I asked politely. And then... Okay, I bribed him.
How much?
Twenty-eight bucks. Does the council reimburse for that kinda stuff?
Did you get a receipt?
Damn...
I know this. It's down by the bus station. Not the nicest part of town.
Gee, let me think. Kind of hard to tell. Last thing I remember was his fist.
Imagine the possibilities.
Like, say... immortality?
Exactly. I'm dying to get rid of that.
Funny.
[deadpan] I'm a funny guy.
Actually... bye. [bolts from the library]
It was the candy! We were teenagers!
On the hood of a police car?!
[goes to leave, glances back] I'll be downstairs. [exits] You feel better!
Twice!?
Go away!
Never gonna happen.
You think I won't use this?
Stop doing that!
Doing what?
Stop saying my name like we're friends! We're not friends! You all think I'm an idiot! A short idiot!
I don't. I don't think about you much at all. Nobody here really does. Bugs you, doesn't it? You have all this pain and all these feelings, and nobody's really paying attention?
You think I just want attention?
You know what? I was wrong. You are an idiot. My life happens to, on occasion, suck beyond the telling of it. Sometimes more than I can handle. And it's not just mine. Every single person down there is ignoring your pain because they're too busy with their own. The beautiful ones. The popular ones. The guys that pick on you. Everyone. If you could hear what they were feeling. The loneliness. The confusion. It looks quiet down there. It's not. It's deafening... You know, I could've taken that by now.
I know.
Well, it's nice to be able to help someone in a non-slaying capacity. Except he's starting to get that look, you know, like he's gonna ask me to prom.
Well, it would probably be good for his self-esteem, if you...
I'm glad to see you've recovered from your psychic encounter more or less intact. Feel up to some training?
So this is our future? This is how we're going to spend our nights when I'm fifty and you're... the same age you are now?
Let's just get you to fifty.
Liking that plan.
Well, I don't think I can talk any slower, Wes. I want to leave.
What? Now?
No, not now. After I graduate, you know, college?
But you're a Slayer.
Yeah. I'm also a person. You can't just define me by my slayer-ness. That's... something-ism.
Looks like a job for Wiccan girl. What do you say, Will? Big-time danger.
Hey, I eat danger for breakfast.
But oddly enough, she panics in the face of breakfast foods.
You hurt me, I hurt you. I'm just a little more efficient.
[stands up] Aw, and here I just thought you didn't have a comeback.
I can't let you stay because of me.
I kind of love you.
And, besides, I have a shot at being a bad-ass Wicca, and what better place to learn?
I feel the need for more sugar than the human body can handle.
Mochas?
Yes please! [the two get up and walk away] It's weird. You look at something and you think you know exactly what you're seeing, and then you find out it's something else entirely.
Neat, huh?
Sometimes it is.
Well, hey! Good luck with that. Hope it works out for you.
You know, you can laugh, but I have witnessed a millennium of treachery and oppression from the males of the species, and I have nothing but contempt for the whole libidinous lot of them.
Then why you talking to me?
[averting her eyes] I don't have a date for the prom.
Well, gosh! I wonder why not. It couldn't possibly have anything to do with your sales pitch?
One of us is very confused, and I honestly don't know which.
When I lost my powers I got stuck with this persona, and now I have all these feelings. I don't understand it. I don't like it. All I know is I really want to go to this dance and I want someone to go with me.
Look, I know you find me attractive. I've seen you looking at my breasts.
Nothing personal, but when a guy does that it just means his eyes are open.
Whatever. Look, do you wanna go with me or not?
[about the Prom] Well, at least we all have someone to go with now. Some of us are going with demons, but I think that's a valid lifestyle choice.
This is actually a new category. First time ever. I guess there were a lot of write-in ballots, and, um, well, the prom committee asked me to read this... We're not good friends. Most of us never found the time to get to know you, but that doesn't mean we haven't noticed you. We don't talk about it much, but it's no secret that Sunnydale High isn't really like other high schools. A lot of weird stuff happens here.
For God's sake, man, she's eighteen. And you have the emotional maturity of a blueberry scone. Just--have at it, will you, and stop fluttering about?
I always say patrol's not complete without a trip to the stinky sewers.
I'm sure I saw him come down here.
Couldn't we just let this be the vamp that got away? We could say he was this big. [Holds hands apart to indicate size]
I'm going to miss her.
Don't you hate her?
So I was wondering... maybe if you're free this weekend... we could do some... entertaining thing.
Would that be along the lines of you telling me all about the men you destroyed back in your demon days? 'Cause pencil me in!
Well, we could do something else you like. We could, um, watch sports of some kind.
Uh, I don't know.
Men like sports. I'm sure of it.
The mayor is going to kill us all during graduation.
Oh! Are you gonna go to fifth period?
I was thinking I might skip it.
I think we could be dead in two days and you're being ironic, detachment guy.
Would it help you if I panic?
Yes! It'd be swell. Panic is a thing people can share in times of crisis. And everything's really scary now, you know? And I don't know what's going to happen. A-a-and there's all sorts of things that you're supposed to get to do after high school, and I was really looking forward to doing them, and now we're probably just going to die, and I'd like to feel that maybe you would --
What are you doing?
Panicking.
When I think that something could happen to you, it feels bad inside, like I might vomit.
Welcome to the world of romance.
It's horrible. No wonder I used to get so much work.
Well, I'm sorry I give you barfy feelings.
Come with me.
I can't.
Why not?
I got friends on the line.
So?
That humanity thing's still a work in progress, isn't it?
I personally don't think it's possible to come up with a crazier plan.
We attack the Mayor with hummus.
I stand corrected.
Just keeping things in perspective.
I think there was a 'yea' vote buried in there somewhere.
Well, he's not crazy about germs.
Of course. That's it! We'll attack him with germs!
Great! We'll get him cornered, and then you can sneeze on him.
I'm starting to lean towards the hummus offensive.
He'll never see it coming.
I'm not here for the council. Just tell me how I can help.
That is so classy! Isn't he just so classy?
It's a start.
So there is something I can do? Besides scream like a woman.
Oh my God. He's going to do the entire speech.
Man, just ascend already.
It was a hell of a battle.
Not the battle. High School.
[about college] It's nice that you're excited.
It's just that in High School, knowledge was pretty much frowned upon, you really had to work to learn anything. But here... the energy, the collective intelligence, it's like this force. This penetrating force.. and I can just feel my mind opening up, you know, and letting this place just thrust into and spurt knowledge into... [considers what she's saying] That sentence ended up in a different place than it started out in.
Oh no, I forgot to pick mine up, the line's probably really long now too.
Of Human Bondage, have you ever read it?
Oh, I'm not really into porn... I mean, I'm just trying to cut way back.
You saw the Grand Canyon?
Huh?
Male strippers?
No power on this earth!
And you thought your days of sneaking out of your room were over.
You guys can do the brain thing, I'm gonna go to class.
Which could also be construed as the 'brain thing'.
Not when you're majoring in Nap 101.
So, either you hit her, or you did your wacky mime routine for her.
Well, I didn't do either, actually. But she deserves it, don't you think?
She's... other really bad things.
On the plus side you've killed the bench, which was looking shifty.
I'm 3000 years old! Stop treating me like I'm 900!
I can't stop thinking about you. Sometimes, in my dreams, you're all naked.
Really? You know, if I'm in the checkout lane at the Wal-Mart, I've had that same one.
Maybe I dumped her!
She left him for a fungus demon. That's all he talks about most days.
Harm!
I like you. You're funny and you're nicely shaped. And, frankly, it's ludicrous to have these interlocking bodies and not... interlock. Please remove your clothing now.
Is Antonio Banderas a vampire?
No.
Can I make him a vampire?
No. [Beat] On second thought, go ahead. Take as long as you like. Do Melanie and the kids as well.
I don’t know. I was going for ferocious, scary, but it’s coming out more dryly sardonic.
It does appear to be mocking you with its eye holes.
The nose hole seems sad and full of self-loathing.
You haven't called. Not once!
You said you were over me.
And you just accepted that? I only said that because I thought that's what you wanted to hear.
Well, that's the funny thing about me. I tend to hear the actual words people say and accept them at face value.
That's stupid.
I accept that.
I'm Joan of Arc. I figured we had a lot in common, seeing as how I was almost burned at the stake, plus she has that close relationship with God.
Of course. I wish I'd thought of that before I put down my deposit. I could've been God.
Blasphemer.
[in a squeaky voice]: I am the dark lord of nightmares, the bringer of terror! Tremble before me. Fear me!
He... he's so cute!
Tremble!
Who's a little fear demon? Come on! Who's a little fear demon?
Don't taunt the fear demon.
Why, can he hurt me?
No, it's just... tacky.
Aren't you too young to be a bartender?
Au contraire, mon frere.
Mon frere means brother.
Mon girl-frere. Behold! [holds up a fake ID]
I don't believe this is entirely on the up and up.
What gives it away?
Looking at it.
Nothing can defeat the penis! [looks around] Too loud, very unseemly.
Hey, you got a table.
I had to kill a man.
Well it's a really good table.
You knew it was beer!
Well, excuse me, Mr. I-spent-the-sixties-in-an-electric-Kool-Aid-funky-Satan-groove!
It was the early seventies, and you should know better.
And was there a lesson in all this? huh? What did we learn about beer?
Foamy.
Good, just as long as that's clear. Anyways I think the boys in the car are contained for the time being. This'll give them some time to ponder the geo-political ramifications of being mean to me!
How come you didn't tell me I look like a crazy birthday cake in this shirt?
I thought that was the point.
You don't wanna find out what I am.
You're an animal... Animals kill.
You're right. We kill.
My whole life, I've never loved anything else.
You're right. A human being in pain has nothing to do with your job. [exits]
[taken aback] Yep, that's the plan.
I figured it was.
Talk, funny is good but don't be glib. And remember, if you hurt her I will beat you to death with a shovel. A vague disclaimer is nobody's friend. Have fun!
I'll give you a choice. Now I'm going to kill you - no choice in that. But I can let you stay dead... or bring you back, to be like me.
I don't understand. This sort of thing's never happened to me before.
I felt all right when I started. Let's try again.
Ow ow ow! Dammit!! [kicks a dresser]
Maybe you're trying too hard. Doesn't this happen to every vampire?
Not to me it doesn't!
You're being too hard on yourself. Why don't we wait a half an hour and try again? Or...
Okay, now, for some of that, you were channeling your mother?
Well, I think that's a shame. I love a ritual sacrifice.
It's not really a one of those.
To commemorate a past event, you kill and eat an animal. It's a ritual sacrifice... with pie.
I inflicted a lot of putrefying diseases on men when I was an avenging demon, you look like you're getting all of them.
Okay, I'll stay. But you should go, you could catch it.
We'll die together. It's romantic... Help me get your trousers off.
You're a strange girlfriend.
I'm a girlfriend?
Oh, there's a chance I'm delirious.
Ah, yes. Well, whatever it is that's making you sick, so far I like it.
Oh, someone put a stake in me!
You gotta lot of volunteers in here.
I just can't take all this namby-pamby boo-hooing about the bloody Indians.
Uh, the preferred term is-
You won. All right? You came in and you killed them and you took their land. That's what conquering nations do. That's what Caesar did, and he's not going around saying, "I came, I conquered, I felt really bad about it." The history of the world is not people making friends. You had better weapons, and you massacred them. End of story.
Well, I think the Spaniards actually did a lot of-- Not that I don't like Spaniards.
Listen to you. How you gonna fight anyone with that attitude?
We don't wanna fight anyone.
Heh. Yeah...Good luck.
If we could talk to him--
You exterminated his race. What could you possibly say that would make him feel better? It's kill or be killed here. Take your bloody pick.
Maybe it's the syphilis talking, but... some of that made sense.
I made a lot of these points earlier, but fine, no one listens to me.
I'll never get used to this. One day, she's at the friendship ceremony. The next day, she's on the news. The coroner's office said she was missing an ear. So I'm thinking, maybe we're looking for a witch. There's some great spells that work much better with an ear in the mix.
That's one fun little hobby you've got there, Will.
Or... or maybe an ear-harvesting demon that--it's, like, building another demon completely out of ears. Or... ooh! Thought. We're just assuming someone else cut off the ear. What if it was self-inflicted, like Van Gogh?
So... she brutally stabs herself, dumped the body, then cut off her own ear?
No. She cut off her ear, then killed herself, then dumped the body--I'm really off my game, aren't I?
The pain is not a friend.
But I can't help thinking, isn't that where the fire comes from? Can a nice, safe relationship be that intense? I know it's nuts, but part of me believes that real love and passion have to go hand in hand with pain and fighting. (Stakes a vampire) I wonder where I get that from?
Hey!
Sorry, poor choice of words. Until we're sure you're, you're...
Flaccid?
You are one step away, missy -
Passions is on! Timmy's down a bloody well, and if you make me miss it I'll -
Do what? Lick me to death?
How? What? How?
Three excellent questions.
The man I love.
Can I be blind too?
Don't I get a cookie?
No.
Yeah, well, I'm not the one who wanted Wind Beneath My Wings for the first dance.
[embarrassed] ... That was the spell!
Man, that was an exciting class, huh?
Oh, yeah — wow.
And the last twenty minutes — it was a revelation. Just laid out everything we need to know for the final. I'd hate to have missed that.
Just tell me I didn't snore.
Very discreet. Minimal drool.
If you don't know how I feel about -
I don't. This isn't a relationship! You don't need me. All you care about is lots of orgasms.
OK... remember how we talked about private conversations? How they're less private when they're in front of my friends?
Oh, we're not your friends. Go on.
Please don't.
Don't see why I have to be tied up.
It's just while I'm sleeping.
Like I'd bite you, anyway.
Oh, you would.
Not bloody likely.
I happen to be very biteable, pal. I'm moist and delicious.
Alright, yeah, fine. You're a nummy treat.
And don't you forget it.
So not stellar, huh?
Talk. All talk. Blah blah Gaia, blah blah moon, menstrual life-force power thingy. You know after a couple of sessions I was hoping we would get into something real but...
No actual witches in your witch group.
No, bunch of wanna-blessed-bes.
Soddin' sleeping chair is bloody – sodden.
I have to get to work
Yeah, delivering melted cheese on bread. Doing your part to keep America constipated.
Right. It was carved into his chest, like a big creepy eye.
It's kind of like the CBS logo. Hey, could this be the handiwork of one Mr. Morley Safer?
I'm telling you I've seen this somewhere before. I just can't remember where! I mean, it's like...
It's the end of the world.
It's, ah, the earthquake... that symbol... yes.
I told you. I-I said "end of the world", and you're like "poo-poo, southern California, poo-poo"!
I'm so very sorry. My contrition completely dwarfs the impending apocalypse.
Besides, look on the bright side. If we don't come up with a solution, we might face an apocalypse.
[extremely happy] Really? You're not just saying that?
I see what you're doing. You're trying to get us to dust you.
I'm not. I just don't want pity from geeks more useless than I am.
"I wonder where I've seen this before" - Where else? The place I spend most of my waking hours memorizing stuff off the sides of mausoleums. Big freaky cereal boxes of death.
Er, its more effective then it sounds-
Seventeen&nbsp;: eleven vampires, six demons.
Oh... wow. I mean, that's... seventeen.
Me?
[uncomfortably searches for the right words]
But you killed the- You did that thing with that- Uh, you drowned. And the snake! Not to mention... daily... slayage of... Wow.
It's no big, really. Hey, who wants ice cream?
[Light-heartedly] Look, if you were fighting since you were fifteen, you'd have a hefty resume too!
Fifteen?!
You own nothing. This shouldn't be taking so long.
Hang on. Let a fella get organized. [picks up radio.]
That's my radio!
Go on, then. Let's get on with the fighting -- You understand me?
Of course I understand you.
I'm speaking English?
No, you're speaking Fyarl. I happen to speak Fyarl. And... by the way, why the hell are you suddenly a Fyarl demon? You just come over all demony this morning?
Y-you help me and I-I don't kill you.
Money. I could pay you money.
Oh, I like money. How much?
A h-hundred dollars.
A hundred dollars? You'll have to do a lot better than that. Two hundred.
[offhandedly while stacking her chips] Yes, we've enjoyed spanking.
Will, I think you better get used to- a Twinkie!? That's his lunch? Oh, he is so gonna be punished.
[pouty] Everyone's getting spanked but me.
Professor Walsh. That simple little recon you sent me on... wasn't a raccoon. Turns out it was me trapped in the sewers with a faulty weapon and two of your pet demons. If you think that's enough to kill me, you really don't know what a Slayer is. Trust me when I say you're gonna find out.
[After killing Professor Walsh, his first act of life] Mommy.
Sorry, I'm the only one that can pass the retinal scan.
The... ew! I don't wanna see that.
Make out with me.
What?
Maybe that's what's wrong with the world. You ever think about that?
That would never happen.
Well no, Buff. That's why they're called cartoons not documentaries.
I'm going to the crime scene to see what I can find out. You guys research the Polgara demon. I want to know where it is. When I find it, I'm going to make it pay for taking that kid's life. I'll make him die in ways he can't even imagine.
That probably would've sounded more commanding if I wasn't wearing my yummy sushi pajamas.
[about Adam] I could barely fight him. It was like Maggie designed him to be the ultimate warrior. He's smart and fast, he gave the commando guys the slip with no problem.
There's gotta be a flaw.
I've been looking for you.
Been standin' still for eight months, B, how hard you look?
No such animal.
You had it coming.
[sounding bored] Were you planning to slit my throat anytime soon?
Hi, honey.
You know why I really hate you, Summers?
Well, yeah. That covers a lot of it.
I get this chip out, you and me are going to have a confrontation.
How did I turn into a demon?
Actually, I beg you to stop.
I told the cops, they send anyone in, I start the whole massacre thing.
Now's a good time to start.
Why not?
You're the Slayer.
But someone could wish the whole world to be different, right? That's... possible?
Oh, okay. Say you really like shrimp a lot or we could say you don't like shrimp at all. "Blah, I wish there weren't any shrimp" you'd say to yourself-
Or prawns.
Stop with the shrimp! I'm trying to do something here.
No... Yes... it was a gift.
These spells, they really work? I mean, can you really turn your enemies inside out? Or... learn to excrete gold coins.
That one's not so much fun.
Right, you can't just go librum incendere and expect --
Okay, you get Fangs, I'll get Horny. I mean...
So? She's a Slayer, he's a big soldier boy. What do they need you for?
Oh.
Wow.
Um, could we go back to the haunted house? Cause, this is creeping me out.
Does he do this a lot?
[sarcastic.] Sure. Every day the earth rotates backward and the skies turn orange.
Now I remember why I used to have such a crush on him.
Well, he is pretty good.
His voice is... pleasant.
[incredulous.] What?!
Oh, come on, he is kinda sexy.
I'm fighting total mental breakdown here, Will. No more fueling the fire, please.
No, they're probably dead.
Unless they're too busy doing it to answer.
Doing what?
You know, for a god of acoustic rock you're... kind of naive.
I didn't think you meant... In the midst of all that? Do you really think they were keeping it up?
Oh, for different phrasing.
Zippo. Patrol has been totally uneventful. My kill count's way down.
And we know what that often indicates.
I'm not. I'm just saying it's a little strange to date someone who tries to eat you once a month!
Why do you keep saying my name like that?
Like what, Will?
Are you freaked?
[overly insistent] What? No, Will! [pauses, then gathers her emotions] No. No, absolutely no to that question. I'm glad you told me.
No matter what, somebody's going to get hurt. And the important thing is, you just have to be honest or it's going to be a lot worse.
The thing about the Slayer is she is a whiny little thing, but when it comes to fighting she does have a slight tendency to win.
No, I-I understand. You have to be with the person you l-love. [beat]
[looks a bit hurt, then smiles] I am.
You mean...
I mean. [pause] Okay?
Oh, yes.
I feel horrible about everything I put you through. A-and I'm gonna make it up to you. [smiles] Starting right now.
[smiles] Right now?
You know, for someone who's got "Watcher" on his resume', you might want to cast an eye to the front door every now and again.
You're not exactly the wiz these days either. God, I'm never going to get paid.
I am a wiz.
She is a wiz.
If ever a wiz there was.
[happily] Now that was fun!
You were successful?
[scoffs] Easier than I'd thought it'd be, too.
You're sure?
[scoffs] Feel it in my bones. I call it...the Yoko Factor. [off Adam's look] Don't tell me you've never heard of The Beatles?
I have. [stands] I like Helter Skelter
What a surprise. The point is, they were once a real powerful group. It's not a stretch to say they ruled the world. And when they broke up everyone blamed Yoko, but the fact is the group split itself apart, she just happened to be there. You know how it is with kids. They go off to college, they grow apart. Way of the world.
Ah, no. I am no Alfred, sir. No, you forget. Alfred had a job.
Maybe that all changes when I'm off doin' sit-ups in Fort Dix!
Fort Dix? [begins to giggle hysterically]
Are you drunk?
[finishes laughing] Yes, quite a bit, actually.
Well, stop it!!
You guys, stop this! What happened to you today?!
[perturbed] What do you mean 'wrong?'
[from upstairs, still drunk] Bloody hell!
The witch?
Her friend.
Right.
One of the friends from which you so efficiently separated her.
Damn right I did! You should have seen 'em, they won't be talking to each other for a long, long- [pointed stare from Adam] -hang on, I think I might have detected a small flaw.
So you failed.
Well, hey, you're supposed to be so smart, but you let me plan this thing! [Adam glares] Well, let's not quibble about who failed who, the important thing is making sure the Slayer is where we want-
Go.
Gone. [Walks to the door] So, um, we'll do this chip thing when I get back?
Does anyone else miss the Mayor? "I just wanna be a big snake".
Great plan. That's right up there with duck and cover.
I do speak Sumerian, it's not that. Only an experienced witch can incant it, and you have to be within striking distance of the subject.
See what you get for taking French instead of Sumerian?
What was I thinking?
As a matter of fact you are.
Sometimes I think about two women doing a spell, and...then I do a spell by myself.
I move pretty fast. You know, a man's always after a-
Conquest?
I'm a conquistador.
Are you sure it isn't comfort?
I'm a comfortador also.
But what else could I expect from a bunch of low-rent, no-account hoodlums like you? Hoodlums, yes, I mean you and your friends, your whole sex. Throw 'em in the sea for all I care. Throw 'em in and wait for the bubbles. Men, with your groping and spitting. All groin, no brain. Three billion of ya' passin' around the same worn out urge. Men... with your sales.
You know him?
I knew you'd come.
Why? Because I'm under your thrall? [suddenly comes back to herself and pulls out her stake] Well, guess again, pal.
Put the stake down.
[looks nervously around her] Maybe I should rethink that thrall thing. [whimpers a little]
I am.
And you're sure this isn't just some fanboy thing? Because... I've fought more than a couple of pimply overweight vamps that called themselves Lestat.
You've heard of me?
Naturally. You're known throughout the world.
Naw. Really?
Why else would I come here? For the sun? I came to meet the renowned... killer.
Yeah, I prefer the term Slayer. You know, killer just sounds so...
Naked?
Like I... paint clowns or something. I'm the good guy, remember?
Perhaps, but your power is rooted in darkness. You must feel it.
No. You know what I feel? Bored.
Where is he?! Where's the creep that turned me into his spider-eating man-bitch?
He's gone.
Dammit! You know what? I'm sick of this crap! I'm sick of being the guy who eats insects and gets the funny syphilis. As of this moment, it's over. I'm finished being everybody's butt-monkey!
Check. No more butt-monkey.
I'm standing right here!
Oh no, do they make an ointment for that?
People gotta respect a solid work ethic.
So... I won't be taking drama with you.
What? You have to, you promised!
Drama is just Tuesday and Thursday afternoons, you can blow off training Tuesday and Thursday afternoons, can't you?
What happened to you people gotta respect a work ethic?
Other people, not me! There's a whole best-friend loophole!
Crap! Look at this. I'm burdened with a husband, and several tiny pink children, and more cash than I can reasonably manage…
That means you're winning.
Really?
Yes. Cash equals good.
Oh! [claps] I'm so pleased! Can I trade in the children for more cash?
You are going to be in so much trouble when we get home! [swings ax]
Yeah, well, I'm telling Mom you slayed in front of me.
Why wouldn't I be?
Well, aside from the fact that most magic shop owners in Sunnydale have the life expectancy of a Spinal Tap drummer... and have you ever run a store before?
I was a librarian for years. This is exactly the same, except people pay for the things they don't return. It'll give me focus, increase my resources. And it'll prevent you lot from trampling all over my flat at all hours. There may even be some space for you to train in the back.
Boy, you've really thought this through... How bored were you last year?
Am not.
You have to help me figure this out, you know.
That's not true, sometimes we all help to save you... And-and sometimes you're not in trouble.
I handled it fine.
Well, if this guy wants to fight with weapons, I've got it covered from A to Z — from 'axe' to... 'zee other axe'.
Well maybe we shouldn't do this re-integration thing right away. See, I can take the boys home and we can all have sex together, and then, you know, just slap 'em back together in the morning.
We just need to arrange the candles; also, we should continue to pretend we heard none of the disturbing sex talk.
Check. Candles and pretense.
Well, what do we do if it doesn't work?
They're... kinda the same now.
Yes, he's clearly a bad influence on himself.
I just thought you could help carry a little.
Fine. I'm just your slave.
It's blood. It's what I do!
I will know your blood, Slayer. I will make your neck my chalice... and drink deep. [turns around and falls into an open grave] Ow!
Well, aren't we unholy by definition?
[Holding a Crossbow] Oh yeah, says who? [Doctor points to a "No Smoking" sign] Oh my gosh, I'm so sorry. I didn't see the sign.
[pulls a glowing orb out of her bag] What the hell is it?
It appears to be paranormal in origin.
How can you tell?
Well, it's so shiny.
[to a customer who just finished her purchase] Please go.
But I have their money. Who cares what kind of day they have?
No one. It's just a long cultural tradition of raging insincerity. Embrace it.
[Pauses, then, counting on his fingers] Out... for... a... walk... bitch.
Out for a walk by my house at night. I don't have time for this, William.
Fine. Keep going. I'll cut you a break.
Let me guess. You won't kill me. The whole crowd pleasing threats and swagger routine. Outstandingly original. You know, I was just passing through. Satisfied? I hope so because God knows you need some satisfaction in your life besides shagging Captain Cardboard. And... and I never really liked you anyway. And... and you have stupid hair.
And another thing I just want you to know, this whole "beat you to death" thing I'm doing? This is valuable time out of life I'm never gonna get back.
Well, this earns you a big favor. There could be outfits.
You learn her source [grins] and, uh, we'll introduce her to her insect reflection.
Um, that-that was funny if you, um, studied Taglarin mythic rites… [quietly] and are a complete dork.
I don't know that Taglarin stuff.
Well, we don't really know what kind of things witches like. What, are we gonna get her some cheesy crystal ball?
You bloody well better not. I've got mine already wrapped.
[Holds up hand] Except me.
I don't care what happens.
We're family.
It's code. I think it breaks down to "choo-choo." [mimics pulling a train whistle]
It probably means to follow him. That, or wait here for him.
It means yell real loud, so the vampires who don't know we're coming will have a sporting chance.
Look, I realize that every Slayer comes with an expiration mark on the package. But I want mine to be a long time from now. Like a Cheeto. If there were just a few good descriptions of what took out the other Slayers, maybe it would help me to understand my mistake, to keep it from happening again.
Dead. And hence, not very forthcoming.
Why didn't the Watchers keep fuller accounts of it? The journals just stop.
Well, I suppose if they're anything like me they just find the whole subject too—
Unseemly? Damn, love ya, but you Watchers are such prigs sometimes.
What?
Lesson the first: a Slayer must always reach for her weapon. [morphs into vampire face] I've already got mine.
How many of my kind do you think you've done?
Not enough.
Mm-hmm. And we just keep comin'. But you can kill a hundred, a thousand, a thousand thousand and the armies of Hell besides, and all we need is for one of us, just one, sooner or later, to have the thing we're all hoping for.
And that would be what?
[whispers in her ear] One... good... day.
The first was all business, but the second -- she had a touch of your style. She was cunning, resourceful... oh, did I mention? Hot. I could have danced all night with that one.
You think we're dancing?
That's all we've ever done. And the thing about the dance is... you never get to stop. Every day you wake up, it's the same bloody question that haunts you: "Is today the day I die?"
You make it with your hands, day after day.
Part of you is desperate to know: "What's it like? Where does it lead you?"
... That happens... You know I'll be there. I'll slip in... have myself a real good day. Here endeth the lesson.
I'm almost certain you're not, but to be fair, I wasn't listening.
I for one didn't want to start my day with a slaughter... Which really just goes to show how much I've grown!
Hey. Hey! HEY! HEY!!!
And pretty much the state!
You sold somebody a Kohl's amulet and a Sobekian bloodstone!
Yes, I believe I did.
Are you stupid or something?
Allow me to answer that question with a firing.
She's kidding. An, we talked about the employee-employer vocabulary no-nos. That was number five.
Just once I would like to run into a cult of bunny worshippers.
Great! Thank you very much for those nightmares.
No reason to get upset? Oh, right, sorry, I must just think there is because of my brain tumor!
I still don't get why we had to come here to get info about a killer snot monster.
Because it's a killer snot monster from outer space... I did not just say that.
No.
She's... she does belong to us though.
Yes she does,
Mom-
No, listen to me. No matter what she is, she still feels like my daughter. I have to know that you'll take care of her, that you'll keep her safe, that you'll love her like I love you.
I promise.
Look at you, all afraid I'm hot for your honey.
Because you are.
Maybe I didn't almost kill you enough.
Tonight? When were you going to tell me about this?
I'm telling you now.
Well, I get to run the store, right?
[alarmed] You? Ah, w-well, it's quite a lot for one person to take care of.
We can come by between classes. Usually I use that time to copy over my class notes with a system of different colored pens, but it's been pointed out to me that that's, you know, insane.
I said "quirky."
[angrily] I have finesse! I have finesse coming out of my bottom! I can completely lie to the health inspector. I can, you know, distract him with coy smiles, and-and bribe him with money and goods.
See there? She'll be great.
You do well to flee, townspeople! I will pillage your lands and dwellings! I will burn your crops and make merry sport with your more attractive daughters, mark my words!
Hey, watch it, mate.
On second thought, do what you like.
Barmaid, bring me stronger ale, and some plump, succulent babies to eat.
Yeah, I could do that, but I'm paralyzed with not caring very much.
Trying to send him to a specific place is sort of like, like... trying to hit a puppy by throwing a live bee at it. Which is a weird image and you should all just forget it.
It's possible that he's in the land of perpetual Wednesday, or the crazy melty land, or, you know, the world without shrimp.
There's a world without shrimp? [pause] I-I'm allergic.
I cringe to think what the place would have looked like if I'd been away for longer than three days.
Yes, 'cause nothing could possibly go wrong with that.
Yeah, they're scary and horrible!
I need to know a little bit more about the Slayer, and about the both of you. Your relationship, whatever you can tell me.
O-o-our relationship?
We're friends.
Good friends.
Girlfriends, actually.
Yes, we're girlfriends.
I meant your relationship with the Slayer.
Remember,-
Yeah, yeah. "Hurt them and I'll stake you good and proper". Sing me a new one sometime. That one's getting old.
[coughing] Retroactive.
Just tell me what kind of demon I'm fighting.
What is she?
She's a god.
Oh.
Well, you know what they say, the bigger they are-
The faster they stomp you into nothing.
I just think you're freakin' out 'cause you have to fight someone prettier than you. That is the case, right?
Morning sunshine, if you've come round for eggs and sausages, afraid I'm fresh out.
Careful, these are wet.
Are you okay? Did she hurt you?
Why do you care?
Because I love you, you're my sister.
No I'm not.
I have to get you back home though, Mom's freaking out.
Oh, is she mad about the whole fire thing?
I think you sort of have a "Get out of jail free" card on account of big love and trauma.
Really? Okay, good. Do you think she'd raise my allowance?
Don't push it.
How was school today?
The usual, big square building filled with boredom and despair.
Just how I remember it.
The point is, I work hard for that money.
And you're saying I didn't?
You stole it.
And you're making it into very hard work!
What... is this? The late-night stakeout, the bogus suspects, the flask? Is this a date?
A d-Please! A date? You are completely off your bird! I mean... do you want it to be?
Who is-? Oh wait, I get it. Our little sex game was just the beginning, now you've gone and picked up some cheap queen of the damned to dress up like your precious Drudzilla.
Harm-
You'd better not be thinking what I think you're thinking, because my answer is the same as always. No threesomes unless it's boy, boy, girl, or Charlize Theron.
You have got some nerve coming back here after breaking my Boo-Boo's heart.
Oh, what...Ohh! Gaaah! What the bleeding hell is wrong with you bloody women? What the hell does it take? Why... do you bitches torture me?
Which question do you want me to answer first?
Well, aren't I responsible? I mean, something about me had to make him feel that, right? Something that made him say, "Woof! That's the one for me!"
Well, I-I go online sometimes, but… everyone's spelling is really bad. It's… depressing.
I don't know about you guys, but I've had it with super-strong little women who aren't me.
A fourteen-year-old is too old to be babysat, it's not fair to her.
What'd she make you do?
Well, we listened to aggressively cheerful music sung by people chosen for their ability to dance, and we ate cookie dough and talked about boys.
Robot? Sounds interesting.
We're gonna work on it in the morning, I mean, unless you want to stay for a while, and then you and I could-
Who wants to hear everything?
...listen to my Mom talk about boys.
Bye Rupert.
[recounting her date with Brian] Gosh, I'd forgotten how much fun dating can be.
I dunno, I was standing right here. I didn't see Prince Charming. I didn't even see a goodnight kiss. It all looked pretty tame to me.
Well, I suppose by your standards it would seem pretty... Oh, dear.
What?
I left my bra in his car.
[appalled] Mother!
I'm joking.
Good God, that's horrible. Don't do that.
[playfully] I left it in the restaurant.
[running upstairs, hands over her ears] No more! No more! No more!
[calling upstairs] On the dessert cart!
[faintly, off screen] I can't hear you!
I think we're just about ready for pie.
And then I'll be pretty much ready for barf.
Gross.
You know, barf from the eating. 'Cause all was good and too much goodness.
I'm taking it as a compliment.
Yes, everything was delicious.
Yes. I'm going to barf, too.
Everyone's so sweet.
How you doin' there, Will? Are you in the vomit club, too?
[groans] I had too much nog.
Oh, baby. Want me to rub your tummy? She likes it when I… uh, s-stop explaining things.
My nog tastes funny. I think I got one with rum in it.
That's… bad.
Santa always passes me by. Something puts him off. Could be the big honkin' menorah.
I mean, it's a myth that it's a myth. There is a Santa Claus.
There's a Santa Claus?
Mm-hmm. Been around since, like, the 1500s. But he wasn't always called Santa. But with, you know, Christmas night, flying reindeer, coming down the chimney — all true.
All true?
Well, he doesn't traditionally bring presents so much as, you know, disembowel children. But otherwise…
The reindeer part was nice.
She's cold.
No, my mom!
I can check the Laundry room again if you want.
What about Purple? What does Purple mean?
I think Purple means royal.
Shh, darling. [Kissing her on the head]
We can do this.
We can be strong.
Strong like an Amazon?
[Laughs] Like an Amazon.
I wish I had the blue.
Are they gonna cut the body open?
Oh my God! Would you just… s-stop talking? Just… shut your mouth! Please!
What am I doing?
How can you act like that?
Am I supposed to be changing my clothes a lot? I-is that the helpful thing to do?
Guys—
The way you behave—
Nobody will tell me.
Because it's not okay for you to be asking these things!
[long pause] We don't know. How it works. Why.
I'll tell you what it is is. It's the frickin' doctors. I mean, they just let her out, clean bill of health. Dig a hole in your skull, here's a band aid, next. They should have checked her over, kept her in. We don't got enough monsters in this town, the doctors gotta help them out?
[Nearly crying] Things don't happen. I mean they don't just happen. Somebody's gotta...
I can stay in town as long as you want me.
How's forever? Does forever work for you?
I'm worried about tomorrow.
What's tomorrow?
That's exactly what I don't know.
I'm not going in.
Bull. We're all hip to your doomed obsession.
Guys. Not here.
And she was the only one with a daughter you wanted to shag. I'm touched.
I liked the lady. Understand, monkey boy? She was decent. She didn't put on airs. And she was the only one who didn't treat me like a freak.
Her mistake.
[scoffs] Think what you want. [He throws the flowers to the ground and stomps off]
I know why you're doing this. I mean,you're practically stalking my sister
Its not that. I just don't like to see Summers women taking it on the chin. And I mean what I said earlier. You tell her about this, I'll put you in the ground as well.
[about a ritual] So, how's it start?
I, uh, jump out of the circle and I jump back in it and then um, I shake my gourd.
I know this ritual! The ancient shamans were next called upon to do the hokey pokey and turn themselves around!
[affecting annoyance] Go quest.
And that's what it's all about.
Everyone, before we jump all over her, people do strange things when someone they love dies. When I lost my mother, I did some pretty dumb stuff like lying to my family and staying out all night.
What are you, kidding? She's nuts!
Quite extraordinary, really.
She wanted to know who the Key was.
Well, I can tell her, and then you...
Why?
And my robot?
The robot is gone. The robot was gross and obscene.
It wasn't supposed to...
Whatever you choose, you've got my support. Just think of me as... as your... You know, I'm searching for supportive things and I'm coming up all bras. So, something slightly more manly, think of me as that.
Well, I'm not good, and I'm alright.
I get it. You think you're just a college experiment until I get over the thrill and head back to Boystown.
So you're saying that a powerful and mightily pissed off witch was planning on going and spilling herself a few pints of God blood until you, what, explained?
I'd do it. Right person, person I loved, I'd do it.
... we'll feel oddly worse.
Come on. Step on it, gramps
Step on what? I've driven tricycles with more power than this.
Any last words?
Just one. Truck.
Destroyer of the universe. Guess cutting school doesn't seem so bad now, huh.
And anyone who sees it instantly forgets.
[sigh of relief] Kewpie doll for the lady.
I look around at this world you're so eager to be a part of and all I see is six billion lunatics looking for the fastest ride out. Who's not crazy? Look around, everyone's drinking, smoking, shooting up, shooting each other, or just plain screwing their brains out 'cause they don't want 'em anymore. I'm crazy? Honey, I'm the original one-eyed chicklet in the kingdom of the blind, 'cause at least I admit the world makes me nuts.
No, and I think we already deja'd this vu.
Yes, as you will tell me again when we are older and in chem class.
This ... is gonna be worth it.
'Cause it's always got to be blood.
We're not actually discussing dinner right now.
Blood is life, lackbrain. Why do you think we eat it? It's what keeps you going. Makes you warm. Makes you hard. Makes you other than dead. 'Course it's her blood.
This is how many apocalypses for us now?
Oh, uh, six at least. Feels like a hundred.
I've always beaten them. Always won.
Yes.
Weapons are by the TV. I'll grab the stuff upstairs.
We're not all gonna make it. You know that?
Yeah. Always knew I'd go down fightin'.
I'm counting on you to protect her.
Till the end of the world. Even if that happens to be tonight.
I'll be a minute.
I know you'll never love me. I know that I'm a monster. But you treat me like a man. And that's...Get your stuff. I'll be here
Come on, I'm not going to get anything killed with you lot holding me back.
I thought the big ones were supposed to tire more easily.
No, that's over the hill shopkeepers.
[Out of breath] I'm fine. I just need to die for a minute.
It was that powder you blew at him that made him rabbit off.
It was supposed to confuse him but it just made him peppy. Its not supposed to mix with anything. You think he's taking prescription medication?
Well let's hope he doesn't handle any heavy machinery.
I got her head back on, didn't I? And I got her off those knock-knock jokes.
Oh, who's there?
If you want her to be exactly...
She'll never be exactly.
I know.
And she's gone.
You found the last known Urn of Osiris on eBay?
Yeah, from this desert gnome in Cairo. He drove a really hard bargain, but I finally got him to throw in a limited-edition Backstreet Boys lunch box for -
- a friend.
And zombies don't eat brains anyway, unless instructed to by their zombie master. A lot of people get that wrong.
I don't think that's true. You were very helpful to her.
[laughs bitterly] Right. Yes, I was a perfect Watcher. I did what any good Watcher would do - got my Slayer killed in the line of duty.
Oh, that wasn't your fault.
Of course not. That's how all Slayer-Watcher relationships end, isn't it? She's gone. I did my job.
[innocently] Then why are you still here?
I know we've been going straight because I've been following the North Star.
Demons, ah. There's something you don't see every day. Unless you're us.
Big axe you got there.
Better to cut you down to size, grandma.
Look, we don't want trouble, you don't want trouble.
Actually we do want trouble. We're Demons. We're pretty much all about trouble.
How long was I gone?
Hundred forty-seven days yesterday. Hundred and forty-eight today. 'Cept today doesn't count, does it? [Pause] How long was it where you were?
...Longer.
Did you get through to London?
Yeah. He's gonna head back as soon as he can. I'm not sure, like maybe a couple days.
How did he take it?
Um, I'm not sure. I mean... glad, but kinda weirded out? Which I get, you know. Lots of "Dear Lords". And I think I actually heard him clean his glasses.
I just wanted a little time alone.
Oh, uh... Right then. [goes to leave]
It's okay, I can be alone with you here.
Well, I haven't been to a hell dimension just of late, but I do know a thing or two about torment.
[looking down] I was happy.
OK, so you're telling me I'm broke?
Not yet, but-
Money's definitely becoming an issue.
As in you're being almost out of it.
But I haven't spent any money! I was all... dead and frugal.
So what do we do?
I think you're very mature for your age ... but you're still only fifteen.
Right. Fifteen, as in teenager. You know, if you don't let me look at the pictures, I'm gonna learn everything I know about demons on the street.
Thank you. See? No biggie. I can totally handle it.
That's a weird place for a horn... [stares at the page, then closes the book, shaken] That's not a horn.
It's, uh, you're...
A miracle.
Yes. But then, I always thought so.
Wait! Uh, no fair. It's not our fault the Slayer was there. We said we'd pay you, and we're gonna.
[also kneeling] Uh, yeah. Long live our noble lord and master.
You guys suck.
Well, I know I'm back in America now. I've been knocked unconscious.
Who's calling me? Everybody I know lives here.
I bet it's creditors. The hounding's begun. I read about it. So, you think we'll starve?
I very much doubt it.
No chance I'd have to quit school to work assembling cheap toys in a poorly ventilated sweatshop?
Poorly ventilated... what have you been reading?
Yes, as would I!
What the hell is that?
Death Star, dude! Wicked, huh?
Uh, thermal exhaust port's above the main port, numbnuts.
That's a flawed design!
[awed] The Slayer touched you.
Yeah, it was sexy the way she touched me real hard with her fists.
In this scenario I am your mother?
Wanna be my shiftless absentee father?
Is there some sort of, um, rakish uncle?
I'm just saying, thank you. So much.
Yes. And then I'm going to marry Bob Dole and raise penguins in Guam.
[Cleaning his glasses and not really listening] Yes, quite, yes.
So what are you supposed to be?
Oh, shouldn't you have wings?
[softly] Did you know about this?
[shocked] Is that why you're always cleaning your glasses? So you won't have to see what we're doing?
Tell no one.
[after her first kiss] Shiver me timbers.
That was your first kiss.
I've been kissed before. I kiss all the time, not that I'm a kiss slut. Just with the lips and the pressing together and stuff, hey, expert here!
Were you parking? With a vamp?
I didn't know he was dead.
Shut up.
How did you not know?
I just met him.
Oh, so you were parking with a boy you just met?
We've seen each other at parties.
Shut up.
Oh, like you've never fallen for a vampire?
That was different.
It always is when it's you.
Uh, excuse me! Can we fight now?
Didn't anyone come here just to make out? [one couple raises their hands] Oh, that's sweet. [points at couple] You run, [points at another vampire] you scream.
She came from the grave much graver.
First I'll kill her, then I'll save her.
Everything is turning out so dark.
Going through the motions...
No, I'll save her, then I'll kill her.
I think this line's mostly filler...
What's it gonna take to strike a spark?
These endless days are finally ending in a blaze
And we are caught in the fire
The hardest thing in this world... is to live in it.
Do you think I'm stupid? I know you used that spell on me.
Don't! Just... don't. [shakes head.] There's nothing you can say.
If you don't wanna fight, you don't fight. You don't use magic to make a fight disappear.
But I-I just wanted to make things better. Better for us.
But you don't get to decide what is better for us, Will. We're in a relationship, we are supposed to decide together.
Okay. I'm ... I realize I, I did it wrong.
[apprehensive.] But I... I just wanna help people.
Maybe that's how it started, but ... you're helping yourself now, fixing things to your liking. Including me.
I don't think this is gonna work.
Go a week.
Magic! Magic's all balderdash and chicanery. I'm afraid we don't know a bloody thing. Except I seem to be British, don't I? Uh, and a man. With... glasses. Well, that narrows it down considerably.
We'll get our memory back, it'll all be right as rain.
You don't suppose you and I...we're not related, are we?
There is a ruggedly handsome resemblance.
Father. Oh God, how I must hate you!
What did I do!?
You want me to name you?
Oh, that's sweet, but I think I can name myself. I'll name me... "Joan".
Ugh.
No, I just... I mean, Joan, it's so blah.
Fine, that's your purgative.
Whatever, Joan.
Do you think we're-
Sisters?
What did you just do?
Okay, we'll scratch your back, you scratch...
I'm not going to scratch your anything. You do what I tell you.
That's so weird... so what's she like?
Thousand year old capitalist ex-demon with rabbit phobia.
That's so his type.
Uh, Amy ... three things we have to talk about. One, Larry's gay. [Amy stares] Two, Larry's dead. And three, high school's ... kinda over.
Hey... how've you been?
Rat. You?
Dead.
Oh.
Hey.
How you doin'?
Amy! Amy the rat? Sorry.
No, that's fair. I was a rat.
Don't be ridiculous. Martha Stewart isn't a demon. She's a witch.
Please, she-Really?
Of course. Nobody could do that much découpage without calling on the powers of darkness.
So, uh, the burger was good, you liked it?
Are you kidding, it was like a meat party in my mouth! ...Okay, now I'm just a kid and even I know that came out wrong.
Will you quit that? The only thing that's different is that I'm disgusted with myself. That's the power of your charms. Last night... was the most perverse... degrading experience of my life.
Yeah. Me too.
That might get you off, but it's not my style.
No. It's your calling.
Will, there's nothing wrong with you. You don't need magic to be special.
We don't know that.
I know that. I promise you.
I just... it took me away from myself, I was... free.
I get that. More than you- But it's wrong. People get hurt.
Candles! We can't have candles?
But they're just candles.
Yeah, well, to you and me they're just candles, but to witches they're like... bongs.
Like pudding, am I right? Rice or tapioca, lumpy like that.
She's pudding.
You should go.
So you three have, what? Banded together to be pains in my ass?
We're your arch-nemesises...ses. You may have beaten us this time, Slayer, but next time... um... uh, next time...
Maybe not!
I give you my arch-nemesis...ses...ses.
What am I-... What does it look like I'm doing, you nit? I'm exercising, aren't I? [starts doing "push-ups"]
Exercising? Naked? In bed?
A man shouldn't use immortality as an excuse to let himself go. You gotta be fit for killin'...
Ya-huh.
Sorry, I was just curious.
[whispers] Theory number 5: cat burgers.
Who told you that it isn't easy to love you?
Well... you know, sometimes I'll do something or say something, and then he has to say stuff like, "It is incorrect for you to appreciate money so much," or-or, "Observe: here is how a real human would behave."
Oh, so he corrects you?
We need to get that burger analyzed. We need to find out if it used to be people.
[with mouth full] What? People?
Well, first you say it's cat. Then you come in, hand me a burger, blah blah blah, five minutes later, "Oh, by the way, it happens to be hot, delicious human flesh"?
I needed that burger to analyze it. Now I'm gonna have to get another one.
That's your problem with this scenario? You getting seconds?
Good job, Will! Those aren't, like, potions, are they?
No. No potions. It's not magic, it's... chemistry. You can tell by how damn slow it is.
[sighs] Give a bloke a chance for his eyes to adjust. Damn fluorescent lights. Makes me look dead.
You know, this place is okay for a hole in the ground. You fixed it up.
Well, I ate a decorator once. Maybe something stuck.
I've been thinking about doing something in my room. I think the New Kids on the Block posters are starting to date me.
Do you even like me?
[softly] Sometimes.
But you like what I do to you.
Do you trust me?
Never.
So how did you get so beautiful?
Okay, does that line usually work?
What the hell are you doing here?
That was a long time, baby.
Apparently not long enough.
Oh, you're not still sore about that thing, are you?
What thing would that be, exactly? The "wind-up-slut" you tinkered together? Or when Miss "Nuts-'n-Bolts" tried to choke me to death?
Okay, so, I've made a few mistakes...
No, no, I did - for ever lowering myself to be with a jerk like you.
No, don't say that.
Well, what did you expect? Just... waltz there and sweep me off my feet with your cheesy lines and fancy suit?
No! I-I just... thought we could talk... maybe work things out.
There is nothing to work out. What you did was sick, and just looking at you makes me want to vomit!
Are you sure about that?
Yes, God yes I'm sure...!
I love you, Master.
I just, I wanted us to be together!
She's your ex?
Dude, that is messed up.
Oh, you think? You bunch of little boys, playing at being men. Well, this is not some fantasy, it's not a game, you freaks! It's rape!
These things just made you think you killed her.
She was probably dead long before you stumbled across her.
How can you be sure?
You always hurt the one you love.
A muscle cramp? In your... pants?
What? It's a thing.
What? Oh... uh... yeah. Better.
[smirking] Maybe you, uh, wanna put some ice on it.
We do not joke about eating people in this house!
Ah, you have some weird friends.
News from the file marked "Duh".
It's dangerous, and so is all of us dying.
No, I can't. If I start I.. I might not be able to stop.
And who's fault is that?? You know if you hadn't gotten so much of this in your system in the first place--
Hey! You're gonna back off. She said no and that's it. You're not gonna make her do something that she doesn't want to. And if you try, you have to go through me first. Understood?
Why did we ever agree to have your friends, who are demons, and my family, who are monsters, stay at our place?
Without the laughs.
Just so you know, I'm prepared to hate this woman any way you want.
Thanks, but no. I don't wanna seem all petty.
Well, that's the beauty. You can't, but I can. Please. Let me carry the hate for the both of us.
Go nuts.
Tell me you love me.
I love you... you know I do.
Tell me you want me.
[huskily] I always want you.
You want me to say I like seeing you in bed with that idiot? Or that blinding orange is your very best color? Or that that burger smell is appealing?
You smelled the smell?
You know, it goes away after many bathings.
Hi–what?
Cool.
It's nice to watch you be happy, for them, even, I don't see it a lot, you, uh... you glow.
That's because the dress is radioactive.
Uh, "sex poodle"?
Then I was like... No, it wasn't like, I was in an institution. There were, um, doctors, and nurses and other patients, they told me that I was sick... I guess crazy. And that, um, Sunnydale and all of this, none of it was real.
Oh, come on, that's ridiculous! What, you think this isn't real just because of all the vampires, and demons, and ex-vengeance demons, and the sister that used to be a big ball of universe-destroying energy?
Oh, balls! You didn't say he was a Glarghk Guhl Kashmas'nik!
'Cause I can't say Glarba...
I wish you had tentacles where your beady eyes should be! I wish your intestines were tied in knots and ripped apart inside your lousy gut!
They are.
Really? [brightening] Right now? Does it hurt?
Those are... metaphor intestines! You're not in any real pain!
Well, it's-it's really not so much about hating the men.
We're more centered around the girl-on-girl action.
I don't think he could feel any worse.
Let's test that theory.
Wish his penis would explode?
Things fall apart, they fall apart so hard.
You can't ever... put 'em back the way they were...
Are you okay?
I'm sorry, it's just... [sigh] you know it takes time. You can't just... have coffee and expect—
I know.
There's just so much to work through. Trust has to be built again, on both sides... You have to learn if... if we're even the same people we were, if you can fit in each other's lives. It's a long... important process, and... can we just skip it? Can... can you just be kissing me now?
In that case why won't you sleep with me again?
[walking away] Because I don't love you
[To himself] Like hell.
Mmm, I forgot how good this could feel. Us. Together. Without the magic.
There was plenty of magic.
Oh, gee, then he must have meant it, 'cause hey, guys never say anything they don't really mean, do they?
And then you get all excited with the tingly anticipation, but wait! Not so fast! There's the apocalypse, a-and the back from the grave, and the blah blah blah blah blah, and by the time you're finally standing there in that beautiful expensive white dress you've dreamed about ever since you became human, he's gets all heebie-jeebie and decides, "you know, I'd rather just go steady."
[softly] It used to be.
It just happened, okay?
But I never forgot what he really is. God, what were you thinking?
We're risking everything so that Charles Atlas can get a date? He's going to end up getting us thrown into jail. Or worse. Maybe you and I should think about—
Don't worry babies, daddy gonna give you some too.
See, now I think it's the daddy thing that's throwing her, 'cause incest, not that sexy.
A spell?
It was an accident, you know.
It wasn't personal, that's all.
[about going to prison] I hear they like guys with small hands like their girlfriends.
Think they'll let my aunt bring me my Discman?
That's what you worried about? In-flight entertainment? We're in jail!
We're in custody. We haven't been charged yet.
Thank you, Dragnet. It doesn't matter what they call it, they got us, okay? We're going down. [lowers his voice] That guy's been looking at me. I think he wants to make me his butt monkey.
I had my own guys. The Trio, yeah, you've heard of us.
Right. What were you, a band or something?
She killed him. Ripped him apart and bloodied up the forest doing it. Now she's coming here and the two of you are next.
Oh my god, Me!
You've never had any tiny bit of sex, have you?
I'd like to test that theory.
God. I don't even know where to start.
[trying to calm down.] Sorry.
Sometimes the most adult thing you can do is... ask for help when you need it.
Now you tell me.
You think I won't?
It doesn't matter. I'll still love you.
Shut up!
I'm sorry to disappoint...wait, is that happy crying?
Yes, dummy. You think I wanted the world to end?
I don't know. Didn't you?
I don't want to protect you from the world. I want to show it to you.
My first time out, I missed the heart too.
No way.
Just the once.
How do you make cereal?
I put the box next to the milk. I saw it on the food channel.
So, how are you doing?
My sister's about to go to the same school that tried to kill me for three years. I can't change districts, I can't afford private school, and I can't begin to prepare for what may come out of there. So peachy with a side of keen, that would be me.
The coven, they're the most amazing women I've ever met, but there's this look they get, like I'm going to turn them all into bangers and mash. And I'm not even sure what that is.
They're cautious. I'm sure you can understand that.
I don't have that much power, I don't think.
It's all connected. You're connected to a great power, whether you feel it or not.
I wish you'd just take it from me.
You know we can't. This isn't a hobby or an addiction. It's inside you now. You're responsible for it.
Will they always be afraid of me?
Maybe. Can you handle that?
I've not forgotten.
When you brought me here, I thought it was to kill me, or to lock me in a mystical dungeon for all eternity, or with the torture. Instead you go all Dumbledore on me. I'm learning about magic, Gaia, energy, and the roots system.
Do you want to be punished?
You are. In the end, we all are who we are, no matter how much we may appear to have changed.
I had a speech... I learned it all... Oh god, she won't understand, she won't understand...
I doubt we'll even see each other. Assuming I even half understand my fuzzy job description.
It's not fuzzy. You're what, dealing with troubled kids?
Sunnydale. Come for the food, stay for the dismemberment.
There's good food?
I had a quota, the guy had it coming. What's the big?
I think I'm gonna be sick.
[anguished] Oooh, puppy!
Wait — that gets your sad noise? People's lives are in danger, and you give it up for the Yorkie?
Ain't we in a sodding engine?
Well, yes. Where have you been all night?
Your soul?
Bit worse for lack of use.
You got your soul back. How?
It's what you wanted, right? It's... it's what you wanted, right? And-and now everybody's in here... talking. Everything I did... everyone I... and HIM. And it. The other. The thing... beneath... beneath you. It's here, too. Everybody. They all just tell me go. Go... to Hell.
Why? Why would you do that?
You feel really responsible? You are really responsible!
I know I hurt you... and everyone... and I'm sorry.
Here's something you should know about vengeance demons. We don't groove with the sorry. We prefer, "Oh, God! Please stop hitting me with my own rib bones!"
Go on. Say whatever you want, rib bones and so forth. I deserve it.
And you won't mind?
No.
Red's a bad girl.
And that means something 'cause he's chock full of sanity.
William's a good boy. Carries her water, carries her sin. Supposed to get easier, isn't it. Supposed to help to help, but it doesn't. Still so heavy.
We should've put a leash on him.
Yes, let's tie ourselves to the crazy vampire.
It's smellementary. Also I'm sure there's tunes like this, you know procedures we can use that don't involve magic spells, just good solid detective work. And we can develope a data base of tooth impresions and demon skin samples and I could wear high heels more often.
Wow, that was so close to being empowered.
Everybody loves a slender ankle.
Figuring out how to control your magic seems a lot like hammering a nail. At the end of the hammer, you have the power, but no control. It takes, like, two strokes to hit the nail in, or you could hit your thumb.
Ouch.
So you choke up. Control, but no power. It could take like ten strokes to knock the nail in. Power, control. It's a trade off.
Right. Ouch.
I need to fix this. I don't usually get a heads up before somebody dies.
What do you mean usually?
Have you Googled her yet?
It's a search engine.
Waits.
You think I want this? You think I don't care? [cries] Believe me, I want to... be here, do things. I want to graduate from high school, and I want to go to the stupid winter formal... I have this friend, and it would be fun to go with him. Just to dance and hear lame music to wear a silly dress and laugh and stuff... I'd like to go. There's a lot of stuff I'd like to do. I'd love to ice skate at Rockefeller Center. And I'd love to see my cousins grow up and see how they turn out 'cause they're really mean and I think they're gonna be fat. I'd love to backpack across the country or, I don't know, fall in love, but I won't. I just never will.
You have a soul? Fine. Show me.
Scream "Montresor" all you like, pet.
Get up and get out of this basement.
I don't have anywhere else to go.
I uh, I don't talk to people much. I mean, I talk to them, but they don't talk to me. Except to say that "your questions are irksome," or "perhaps you should take your furs and your literal interpretations to the other side of the river."
You think we haven't seen all this before? The part where you just cut us all out. Just step away from everything human and act like you're the law. If you knew what I felt -
And that all worked out OK.
This is different.
It is always different! It's always complicated. And at some point, someone has to draw the line and that is always going to be me! You get down on me for cutting myself off but in the end, the Slayer is always cut off. There's no mystical guidebook, no all-knowing council. Human rules don't apply. There's only me. I am the law.
There has to be another way.
Then please find it.
She's coming to try.
So, do you have plans later or are you just going to go down to the docks, wait for the fleet to come in?
[shocked] What?
[furious] Where do I start with the bad? First, you told me you were going to the library. Second, you do not go out on a date without informing me first. Third... Anna Nicole Smith thinks you look tacky!
Damn love spell! I have tried every anti-love spell spell I can find.
Even if you found the right one, guy would probably just do an anti-anti-love-spell spell... spell.
What?
This isn't about his physical presence! It's about his heart.
His physical presence has a penis!
I can work around it!
I refuse to answer that on the grounds that it didn't fit.
Wish I'd have stayed in Mexico.
Ah, I didn't like it there. Everyone spoke Mexicoan.
You could've learned it. You learned the entire Klingon dictionary in two and a half weeks.
Me neither. Desde abajo te devora.
"It eats you, starting with your bottom."
Gonna make it right.
We're outlaws with hearts of gold.
Yeah. You look human now. You can do that. Go back and forth.
Oh, so I'm a vampire. [laughs] How weird is that?
Sorry.
Not so much connected.
No, no. I mean, with the stake? And the cross? You do this kind of thing a lot?
I'm The Slayer. It's sort of a thing.
So, what? You like fight vampires professionally?
Oh, I don't get paid. It's more like a Calling. Since... even in school.
I heard a lot of rumors about you back then. You were all mysterious.
I was?
Well, you were never around. A lot of kids thought you were dating some really old guy, or that you were just heavy religious. Scott Hope said you were gay.
What? I dated that ringworm!
He says that about every girl he breaks up with. Then, last year, big surprise... he comes out.
Oh, I have so much to learn. Come on, isn't this insane? I mean, I was afraid to talk to you in high school, and now we're, like, mortal enemies. Hey, wouldn't it be cool if we became nemeses?
Is that how you say the word?
We're gonna have to fight to the death, aren't we?
It's the time-honored custom.
Wow, reality just shows up sometimes, doesn't it? But, you know, I've got the bloodlust pumping, and I kinda get it. I'm looking for a fight. And, oh, it's nothing personal.
Oh, no, I mean, you've been great.
Hey, I don't mean to be Count Buttinsky here, but you just don't seem as thrilled. Is it because we're gonna fight?
It's because I'm gonna win.
Hello! Two years of Tae Kwon Do and vampire strength. I think somebody's counting their chickens.
If you knew what I've done, what I've let myself become. My best friends don't even know. You'd laugh if you heard some of the things I've done to them.
Oh my God!
Oh, your God what?
Oh, well, not my God. Because I defy him and all of his works. Does he exist? Is there word on that by the way?
Nothing solid.
"From beneath you, it devours."
Why would a vampire lie about who sired him? What's that? Some kind of status symbol for the undead? My sire can beat up your sire.
You know you were a lot more fun when you didn't have a soul.
Oh, come on now, I've just explained to you...
Well, I certainly didn't off her. Where are you getting this? You know I can't.
Right. The chip.
I know.
There was this one guy, he hurt her real bad. So she paid him back. She killed him, but she did it real slow. See, first she stopped his heart, and then she replaced it with darkness, and then she made him live his life like that. But he still had to go do his job, see his friends, wake up in the morning and go to bed at night, but he had to do it all... empty. Without anything to look forward to... ever.
Sounds bad.
Well, then she tore out his intestines and rubbed it in his face and took pictures of it.
Oh, God.
But she's downstairs now. Don't worry about her.
Man, this place gives me the creeps. It's like in Wonder Woman, issue 297–299.
"Catacombs". Yeah, with the skeletons.
[embarrassed] Move it! This way!
Who's joking? That pantry thing could work. You saying M. Night Shyamalan lied to us?
We're back at square one.
Which square would that be, exactly?
I'm not sure. The First predates everything we've ever known. Or can know. It's everywhere, it's pure. I don't know if we can fight it.
Please, how many times have I heard that line in my demon days? "I'm so rotten, they don't even have a word for it. I'm bad. Baddy bad bad bad. Does it make you horny?" [everyone stares at her] Or terrified. Whatever.
Potential Slayers can function without sleep. Me, I'm no good without my usual 90 minutes.
I'm with him. Keep the chatter down! Or speak up so I can hear you... I'm bored. Episode I bored.
Um... why is that guy tied to a chair?
The question you'll soon be asking is, "Why isn't he gagged?"
Ow! Watch it, that's my joystick hand.
I'm not gonna touch that one.
I'll be good.
I think a guy slayer would be badass. Like—like if there was this ninja, a guy slayer would be like, "you may be silent, but this'll shut you up." Hiya.
We need to stick together, okay? We're stronger that way. We cannot afford to fall apart now.
She's right. Where would the Justice League have been if they hadn't put their differences aside to stop the Imperium and his shape-shifting alien horde?
Don't help me.
A little chalky.
The smell will lead us to the potential.
Or some poor soul who ate too many chimichangas.
Plucked from an ordinary life, handed a destiny
Say Skywalker, and I smack ya.
It's like—well, it's almost like this metaphor for womanhood, isn't it? The sort of flowering that happens when a girl realizes that she's part of a fertile heritage stretching back to Eve, and-
I'll pay you to talk about Star Wars again.
It's like a gay bar...but with demons.
Maybe that's your power.
What?
Seeing, knowing.
Maybe it is... Maybe I should get a cape.
I know. But you should go. This trip is important for the girls, to understand the source of their power, and know how to use it right.
Let's start with the easy stuff. How long have you known... that you were gay?
Wait. That's easy? And what, you just assume that I'm gay. I mean, presume much?
Hey! What, you think you have some sort of special lesbo-dar or something?
Okay, you know there's a better word for that, right?
Well, we'll fix it. We'll hit serious research mode—
[sighs] Okay. You're right. Not a book thing. [pauses] It's a phone thing.
Who you gonna call?
God, that phrase is never gonna be usable again, is it?
Doubt it.
Miss Summers! Agent Finn reported that you tried to contact him earlier today.
Those were his exact words, ma'am.
I can't even figure out if I've got the right kind of rope.
That depends on what you need it for. Something like functional around the house, or, you know, recreational -- by which I mean, for example, boating or mountain climbing -- not for tying someone up for sexy, funky fun... In conclusion, rope can be useful in various ways.
Sure. I'd be happy to have dinner with you.
Great. I'll draw up the paperwork.
Or maybe he knows I suspect he's up to something, and he's taking me out to kill me.
Well, you'll have to dress for the ambiguity.
Not really a shower.
I'm gonna wait for that sentence to come around again before I jump on.
Well, I didn't take 'em, but there were thongs and regular underpants-
Looks okay.
Damn him!
(shakes her head) Well, it's not working.
Are you nuts? Of course it's working. Observe my-my bitter ranting. Hear the shrill edge of hysteria in my voice.
Um, I should really go find something else to wear. (walks out of the room)
I should move out. Leave town before it is time for me.
No, you have to stay.
You've got another demon fighter now.
That's not why I need you here.
Is that right? Why's that, then?
Because I'm not ready for you not to be here.
Would you let it go? You're like a dog with a bone.
So what?
It's my bone! Just drop it.
Andrew is our... actually, he's our hostage.
I like to think of myself more as a "guest-age".
Will, it's okay, he knows.
Oh, thank God. If I had to explain all these weapons? I had nothing.
Yep.
Oh I don't know. It's just... The First is coming... and look at us, the army! We've got a bunch of fighters with nothing to hit, a wicca who won't-a, and the brains of our operation wears oven mitts.
Well, from now on, I'm your leader as in "do what I say".
Jawohl. But let's not try to forget, we're also your friends.
I'm not.
Then why are you here? Aside from getting rescued, what is that you do?
Um... that'd kinda be my job actually.
Ouch! My goodness! Things look bad for the Slayer, don't they? She didn't see that second vampire, concealed by cover of darkness, ready—
... ready to attack and make her his own vampirical spawn.
Let's rejoin them now to see—
For God's sakes, Andrew! You've been in here for 30 minutes. What are you doing?
Entertaining and educating.
Why can't you just masturbate like the rest of us?
Are you still filming me? Stop!
But it’s a valuable record. An important document for the ages. A Slayer in action.
A nerd in pain. Would they like that? ’cause we could do that.
Hey, I told you get that thing out of my face! Now get out of here before I tear your head off!
Oh sorry. [Takes a step forward] Hey, I told you to get that...
[about the school] Situation still normal. Well, or as normal as this school ever sees.
So it appears.
Maybe you're right. Maybe everything is fine.
Everything's terrible. Total catastrophe.
So, we didn't stop it, then?
So, did you bring back any Potentials?
I told you my concerns when you recklessly chose to remove the chip from his head.
Wait, sorry — chip?
Well, uh, it's a... long story.
And that would be the abridged version.
But he wouldn't hurt anyone anymore because he has a soul now.
Unless the First triggers him again.
Triggers the chip?
No, the trigger's a post-hypnotic thing. The First put it in his head. It was... made him… He was killing again.
So, he has a trigger, a soul, and a chip?
Not anymore!
The trigger?
No, the chip. The trigger's not active anymore.
Because the military gave him a soul?
Uh... sorry.
[shrugs and grins] Oh, goodie. I'm famous.
Told you were coming. Bit of a misunderstanding here. I'm—
Please. You think I'm stupid?
Well, yeah. [grins]
It's all right, B. Luckily, you still punch like you used to.
You OK?
Yeah. Terrific.
He's with me. He has a soul.
No!
Sort of.
He fights on my side. Which is more than I can say for some of us.
Yeah, well if he's so good, what's he doing chasing down defenseless—
That's one of the bad guys.
You should make 'em wear a sign.
"Drink of this, for it is my blood." You know, I always loved the story of the Last Supper. The body and blood of Christ becoming rich, red wine. I recall, as a boy, though, I couldn't help but think: what would happen if you were at the Last Supper, and you ordered the white? A nice oaky Chardonnay or White Zin. I mean, would he make that out of his lymph or some-all? Never did bring it up. Suppose there was a reason why I never spent too long in one parish. Just looking for answers. Just looking for the Lord in the wrong damn places. Then you showed me the light.
Every guy's got some whack fantasy. Scratch the surface of any granola-type dude - naughty nurses and horny cheerleaders... I figure, if you can't beat 'em—
Join 'em.
Just don't forget who's on top.
That, I suspect, would be you.
Damn. I never knew you were that cool.
Well, you always were a little slow.
I never was one for the good book.
Oh, it has its moments.
I might need a parrot.
Huh?
Well, to go with the eyepatch, to really complete the look. I think I still have that costume from Halloween.
Yeah, and don't underestimate the impact of a peg leg. Maybe the hospital can hook you up with a nice one. Maybe they have a two-body-parts-for-the-price-of-one kind of deal.
Oh, you know what the best part is? No one will ever make me watch "Jaws 3-D" again.
Okay... I know you're all upset... and I, myself, would much rather be sitting at the bedside of my one-eyed ex-fiancé than killing time here with you people in this overcrowded and, might I add, increasingly ripe-smelling basement. And I would be, too, if not for a certain awkward discussion he and I recently had right over there on that cot immediately following some exciting and unexpected breakup sex.
That's great.
Yes. I sent Andrew with him.
Again I ask the question.
You sure you don't wanna stop and pick up some burgers or something, you know, road trip food?
It's not a road trip. It's a covert operation.
Right. Right. Gotcha... I—I bet even covert operatives eat curly fries. They're really good.
Not as good as those onion blossom things.
Ooh, I love those.
Yeah, me, too.
It's an onion... and it's a flower. I—I don't understand how such a thing is possible.
See, the genius of it is, you soak it in ice water for an hour so it holds its shape. Then you deep-fry it root-side up for about 5 minutes.
Masterful.
Yeah. Tell anyone we had this conversation, I'll bite you.
Right.
And it's automatically you. You really do think you're better than we are.
No, I—
But we don't know. We don't know if you're actually better. I mean, you came into the world with certain advantages, sure. I mean, that's the legacy.
I—
But you didn't earn it. You didn't work for it. You've never had anybody come up to you and say you deserve these things more than anyone else. They were just handed to you. So that doesn't make you better than us. It makes you luckier than us.
Maybe you don't have to be so blunt about the "losing of the necks" bit.
Let the girl speak the truth. We're all on death's door, repeatedly ringing the doorbell, like maniacal Girl Scouts trying to make quota.
We were never close. You just wanted me because I was... unattainable.
You think that's all that was?
Please, let's not go over the past.
Oh, no, no! Oh, let's hold on here! I've hummed along to your pity ditty. I think I should have the mic for a bit.
Fine. The stage is yours. Cheer me up.
You're insufferable.
Thank you. That really helped.
I'm not tryin' to cheer you up.
Then what are you trying to say?
I don't know! I'll know when I'm done sayin' it. Something pissed me off, and I just-- "unattainable," that's it.
Fine. I'm attainable. I'm a-- I'm an "attain-a-thon." May I please just go to sleep?
I don't want to be the One.
I don't want to be this good-looking and athletic. We all have crosses to bear.
That's exactly what The First does. Finds your Achilles' heel.
Nah, it just talked to me. What? It does a heel thing, too?
It's a phrase. Your weak spot.
Oh. The school thing. I was kind of absent that decade.
Well, it does throw me just a tad. I mean, they're barely more than animals. Feedin' off each other's flesh, it's nauseatin'. But you, you're everywhere. You're in the hearts of little children. You're in the souls of the rich. You're the fire that makes people kill and hate. The fire that will cure the world of weakness. They're just sinners. You are sin.
And you're in me. Gave me strength no man can have.
Amen.
There's only supposed to be one. Maybe that's why you and I can never get along. We're not supposed to exist together.
Good point. Also a factor.
But you're right. I mean, like... I guess everyone's alone, but... being a Slayer? There's a burden we can't share.
And no one else can feel it... Thank God we're hot chicks with superpowers.
Takes the edge off.
[nods] Comforting.
And they have no purpose that unites them, so they just drift around, blundering through life until they die, which they-they know is coming, yet every single one of them is surprised when it happens to them. They're incapable of thinking about what they want beyond the moment. They kill each other, which is clearly insane... and yet here's the thing. When it's something that really matters, they fight. I mean, they're lame morons for fighting, but they do! They never... they never quit. So I guess I'll keep fighting too.
That was kind of beautiful. You, you love humans.
I do not.
Yes you do. [singing] You love them.
What is it?
Yeah. Met those guys. Didn't really care too much for 'em.
Oh! So you're like... what are you?
Hence, the Luxor Casino theme.
I don't understand. How is it possible that we didn't know any of this?
We hid, too. We had to, until now. We're the last surprise.
One way or another, it can only mean an end is truly near.
I'm sorry, I didn't quite catch that last part, on account of her neck snapping and all. Did she say the end is near, or here?
That's great! Everyone's got a soul now.
He'll make a difference.
Oh my god, are you twelve?
I'm getting the brush-off for Captain Peroxide. It doesn't necessarily bring out the champion in me.
You're not getting the brush off. Are you just gonna come here and go all Dawson on me every time I have a boyfriend?
Aha! [points] Boyfriend!
This goes beyond anything I've ever done. It's a total loss of control, and not in a nice, wholesome, my-girlfriend-has-a-pierced-tongue kind of way.
Guy looks at me, let's just say his priorities... shift.
Why, because you're so hot?
Is what it is, yo.
Oh, please! I am so much prettier than you are. Oh, and, uh, for the record, our little encounter didn't exactly change my world.
[stops grinning] You're trippin'! That was rock 'em, sock 'em!
No, no, no, no! It was, it was nice enough, you know, and-and you're, you're very, um, um, enthused, and, I think with a little more experience, you—
Dude, I got mad skills!
Yeah, of course. Let's finish up.
[takes off her belt] Oh, hell with that! We're going again, baby. You're gonna learn a little respect here, pal.
What would be the surprise?
You... do know the meaning of the word, right?
Fine. Deal.
Good enough. [goes back to work]
No way you're prettier than me.
Little bit, yeah.
Welcome to Sunnydale High. There's no running in the halls, no yelling, no gum chewing. Apart from that, there's only one rule. If they move, kill them.
These guys are dust.
I love you.
No. You don't. But thanks for saying it.
Looks like the Hellmouth is officially closed for business.
There's another one in Cleveland. [everyone stares] Not to spoil the moment.
We saved the world.
We'll have to find them.
We will.
Yes, because the mall was actually in Sunnydale, so there's no hope of going there tomorrow.
We destroyed the mall? I fought on the wrong side.
All those shops, gone. The Gap, Starbucks, Toys 'R' Us... Who will remember all those landmarks unless we tell the world of them?
We have a lot of work ahead of us.
Can I push him in?
You've got my vote.
I just want to sleep, yo, for like a week!
I guess we all could. If we wanted to.
Yeah, you're not the one and only Chosen anymore. Just gotta live like a person. How's that feel?
